DevicePolicyManager public class DevicePolicyManager extends Object |java.lang.Object| |↳||android.app.admin.DevicePolicyManager| Public interface for managing policies enforced on a device. Most clients of this class must be registered with the system as a device administrator. Additionally, a device administrator may be registered as either a profile or device owner. A given method is accessible to all device administrators unless the documentation for that method specifies that it is restricted to either device or profile owners. Any application calling an api may only pass as an argument a device administrator component it owns. Otherwise, a SecurityException will be thrown. Note: on automotive builds, some methods can throw an UnsafeStateException exception (for example, if the vehicle is moving), so callers running on automotive builds should wrap every method call under the methods provided by android.car.admin.CarDevicePolicyManager. Developer Guides For more information about managing policies for device administration, read the Device Administration developer guide. Requires the PackageManager#FEATURE_DEVICE_ADMINfeature which can be detected using PackageManager.hasSystemFeature(String). Summary Nested classes Callback used in Callback used in Constants Activity action: ask the user to add a new device administrator to the system. Activity action: Starts the administrator to show policy compliance for the provisioning. Broadcast Action: Sent after application delegation scopes are changed. Activity action: launch the DPC to check policy compliance. Service action: Action for a service that device owner and profile owner can optionally own. Broadcast action: sent when the device owner is set, changed or cleared. Activity action: Starts the administrator to get the mode for the provisioning. Broadcast Action: This broadcast is sent to indicate that provisioning of a managed profile has completed successfully. Broadcast action: sent when the profile owner is set, changed or cleared. Activity action: This activity action is sent to indicate that provisioning of a managed profile or managed device has completed successfully. This constant was deprecated in API level 31. to support Activity action: Starts the provisioning flow which sets up a managed profile. Activity action: have the user enter a new password for the parent profile. Activity action: have the user enter a new password. Activity action: begin the process of encrypting data on the device. Broadcast action: notify that a new local system update policy has been set by the device owner. Delegation of application restrictions management. Delegation of application uninstall block. Delegation of certificate installation and management. Grants access to selection of KeyChain certificates on behalf of requesting apps. Delegation for enabling system apps. Delegation for installing existing packages. Delegation of management of uninstalled packages. Grants access to Delegation of package access state. Delegation of permission policy and permission grant state. Grants access to Result code for Result code for Result code for Result code for Result code for Result code for An optional CharSequence providing additional explanation for why the admin is being added. An The ComponentName of the administrator component. A boolean extra for An integer indicating the complexity level of the new password an app would like the user to set when launching the action An A An A ComponentName extra indicating the device admin receiver of the mobile device management application that will be set as the profile owner or device owner and active admin. An int extra holding a minimum required version code for the device admin package. A String extra holding the URL-safe base64 encoded SHA-256 hash of the file at download location specified in A String extra holding a http cookie header which should be used in the http request to the url specified in A String extra holding a url that specifies the download location of the device admin package. This constant was deprecated in API level 23. Use A String extra holding the URL-safe base64 encoded SHA-256 checksum of any signature of the android package archive at the download location specified in A A A String extra of localized disclaimer header. This constant was deprecated in API level 26. From A string extra holding the IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity) of the device. Boolean extra to indicate that the migrated account should be kept. A Boolean extra that can be used by the mobile device management application to skip the disabling of system apps during provisioning when set to A String extra holding the A Long extra holding the wall clock time (in milliseconds) to be set on the device's A This constant was deprecated in API level 31. Color customization is no longer supported in the provisioning flow. An intent extra holding the provisioning mode returned by the administrator. A boolean extra indicating the admin of a fully-managed device opts out of controlling permission grants for sensor-related permissions, see A string extra holding the serial number of the device. A boolean extra indicating if the education screens from the provisioning flow should be skipped. A boolean extra indicating whether device encryption can be skipped as part of device owner or managed profile provisioning. This constant was deprecated in API level 31. this extra is no longer relevant as device owners cannot create managed profiles A String extra holding the time zone The anonymous identity of the wifi network in The CA certificate of the wifi network in The domain of the wifi network in The EAP method of the wifi network in A boolean extra indicating whether the wifi network in The identity of the wifi network in A String extra holding the proxy auto-config (PAC) URL for the wifi network in A String extra holding the password of the wifi network in The phase 2 authentication of the wifi network in A String extra holding the proxy bypass for the wifi network in A String extra holding the proxy host for the wifi network in An int extra holding the proxy port for the wifi network in A String extra indicating the security type of the wifi network in A String extra holding the ssid of the wifi network that should be used during nfc device owner provisioning for downloading the mobile device management application. The user certificate of the wifi network in Flag for Flag used by Flag used by Specifies that the device should attest its manufacturer details. Specifies that the device should attest its IMEI. Specifies that the device should attest using an individual attestation certificate. Specifies that the device should attest its MEID. Specifies that the device should attest its serial number. Specifies that the calling app should be granted access to the installed credentials immediately. Specifies that a user can select the key via the Certificate Selection prompt. Disable all biometric authentication on keyguard secure screens (e.g. PIN/Pattern/Password). Disable face authentication on keyguard secure screens (e.g. PIN/Pattern/Password). Disable all current and future keyguard customizations. Widgets are enabled in keyguard Disable fingerprint authentication on keyguard secure screens (e.g. PIN/Pattern/Password). Disable iris authentication on keyguard secure screens (e.g. PIN/Pattern/Password). This constant was deprecated in API level Tiramisu. This flag was added in version Disable the camera on secure keyguard screens (e.g. PIN/Pattern/Password) Disable showing all notifications on secure keyguard screens (e.g. PIN/Pattern/Password) Disable trust agents on secure keyguard screens (e.g. PIN/Pattern/Password). Only allow redacted notifications on secure keyguard screens (e.g. PIN/Pattern/Password) Disable all keyguard widgets. Flag used by Enable blocking of non-allowlisted activities from being started into a locked task. Enable the global actions dialog during LockTask mode. Enable the Home button during LockTask mode. Enable the keyguard during LockTask mode. Disable all configurable SystemUI features during LockTask mode. Enable notifications during LockTask mode. Enable the Overview button and the Overview screen during LockTask mode. Enable the system info area in the status bar during LockTask mode. Flag used by This MIME type is used for starting the device owner provisioning. Indicates that nearby streaming is disabled. Indicates that nearby streaming is enabled. Indicates that nearby streaming is not controlled by policy, which means nearby streaming is allowed. Indicates that nearby streaming is enabled only to devices offering a comparable level of security, with the same authenticated managed account. Indicates that a Constant for Constant for Constant for Constant for Constant for Constant for Constant for Constant for Constant for Constant for Constant for Constant for Runtime permission state: The user can manage the permission through the UI. Runtime permission state: The permission is denied to the app and the user cannot manage the permission through the UI. Runtime permission state: The permission is granted to the app and the user cannot manage the permission through the UI. Permission policy to always deny new permission requests for runtime permissions. Permission policy to always grant new permission requests for runtime permissions. Permission policy to prompt user for new permission requests for runtime permissions. Return value for Flag for Flag for Constant to indicate the feature of disabling the camera. Constant to indicate the feature of disabling screen captures. Specifies that Private DNS was turned off completely. Specifies that the device owner requested opportunistic DNS over TLS Specifies that the device owner configured a specific host to use for Private DNS. Specifies that the Private DNS setting is in an unknown state. General failure to set the Private DNS mode, not due to one of the reasons listed above. If the The selected mode has been set successfully. The provisioning mode for fully managed device. The provisioning mode for managed profile. The provisioning mode for a managed profile on a personal device. Flag for Flag for Flag used by Flag for Flag for Flag for Flag for Public methods Called by a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to acknowledge that the device is compliant and the user can turn the profile off if needed according to the maximum time off policy. Called by the profile owner of a managed profile so that some intents sent in the managed profile can also be resolved in the parent, or vice versa. Called by the profile owner of a managed profile to enable widget providers from a given package to be available in the parent profile. Called by device owner to add an override APN. Called by a profile owner or device owner to set a default activity that the system selects to handle intents that match the given Called by a profile or device owner to set a user restriction specified by the key. Called by a device owner to bind to a service from a secondary managed user or vice versa. Returns true if the caller is running on a device where the admin can grant permissions related to device sensors. Returns whether enabling or disabling USB data signaling is supported on the device. Called by the device owner or profile owner to clear application user data of a given package. Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to remove the cross-profile intent filters that go from the managed profile to the parent, or from the parent to the managed profile. This method was deprecated in API level 26. This method is expected to be used for testing purposes only. The device owner will lose control of the device and its data after calling it. In order to protect any sensitive data that remains on the device, it is advised that the device owner factory resets the device instead of calling this method. See Called by a profile owner or device owner to remove all persistent intent handler preferences associated with the given package that were set by This method was deprecated in API level 26. This method is expected to be used for testing purposes only. The profile owner will lose control of the user and its data after calling it. In order to protect any sensitive data that remains on this user, it is advised that the profile owner deletes it instead of calling this method. See Called by a profile or device owner to revoke the current password reset token. Called by a profile or device owner to clear a user restriction specified by the key. Called by any app to display a support dialog when a feature was disabled by an admin. Called by a device owner to create a user with the specified name and a given component of the calling package as profile owner. Re-enable system apps by intent that were disabled by default when the user was initialized. Re-enable a system app that was disabled by default when the user was initialized. This API can be called by the following to generate a new private/public key pair: Gets the array of accounts for which account management is disabled by the profile owner or device owner. Return a list of all currently active device administrators' component names. Returns the set of affiliation ids previously set via Called by device or profile owner to query the set of packages that are allowed to access the network directly when always-on VPN is in lockdown mode but not connected. Called by a device or profile owner to read the name of the package administering an always-on VPN connection for the current user. Retrieves the application restrictions for a given target application running in the calling user. This method was deprecated in API level 26. From This method was deprecated in API level 30. From Returns the list of target users that the calling device owner or owner of secondary user can use when calling Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to determine whether or not Bluetooth devices cannot access enterprise contacts. Determine whether or not the device's cameras have been disabled for this user, either by the calling admin, if specified, or all admins. This method was deprecated in API level 26. From Gets a set of package names that are allowed to access cross-profile calendar APIs. Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to determine whether or not caller-Id information has been disabled. Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to determine whether or not contacts search has been disabled. Returns the set of package names that the admin has previously set as allowed to request user consent for cross-profile communication, via Called by the profile owner of a managed profile to query providers from which packages are available in the parent profile. Retrieve the number of times the user has failed at entering a password since that last successful password entry. Called by a profile owner or device owner to retrieve a list of delegate packages that were granted a delegation scope. Called by a profile owner or device owner to retrieve a list of the scopes given to a delegate package. Returns the user session end message. Returns an enrollment-specific identifier of this device, which is guaranteed to be the same value for the same device, enrolled into the same organization by the same managing app. Callable by device owner or profile owner of an organization-owned device, to retrieve the current factory reset protection (FRP) policy set previously by Returns the system-wide Private DNS host. Returns the system-wide Private DNS mode. Returns all CA certificates that are currently trusted, excluding system CA certificates. Get the list of apps to keep around as APKs even if no user has currently installed it. Called by a device or profile owner, or delegated certificate chooser (an app that has been delegated the Determine whether or not features have been disabled in keyguard either by the calling admin, if specified, or all admins that set restrictions on this user and its participating profiles. Gets which system features are enabled for LockTask mode. Returns the list of packages allowed to start the lock task mode. Called by a device admin to get the long support message. Called by a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to get maximum time the profile is allowed to be turned off. Retrieve the current maximum number of login attempts that are allowed before the device or profile is wiped, for a particular admin or all admins that set restrictions on this user and its participating profiles. Retrieve the current maximum time to unlock for a particular admin or all admins that set restrictions on this user and its participating profiles. Called by a device or profile owner to retrieve the list of packages which are restricted by the admin from using metered data. Returns the current runtime nearby app streaming policy set by the device or profile owner. Returns the current runtime nearby notification streaming policy set by the device or profile owner. This method was deprecated in API level 31. From Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to retrieve the name of the organization under management. Called by device owner to get all override APNs inserted by device owner. Called by the profile owner of a managed profile to obtain a Returns how complex the current user's screen lock is. Get the current password expiration time for a particular admin or all admins that set restrictions on this user and its participating profiles. Get the password expiration timeout for the given admin. Retrieve the current password history length for a particular admin or all admins that set restrictions on this user and its participating profiles. Return the maximum password length that the device supports for a particular password quality. This method was deprecated in API level 31. see This method was deprecated in API level 31. see This method was deprecated in API level 31. see This method was deprecated in API level 31. see This method was deprecated in API level 31. see This method was deprecated in API level 31. see This method was deprecated in API level 31. see This method was deprecated in API level 31. see Called by device or profile owners to get information about a pending system update. Returns the current grant state of a runtime permission for a specific application. Returns the current runtime permission policy set by the device or profile owner. Returns the list of permitted accessibility services set by this device or profile owner. Returns the list of packages installed on the primary user that allowed to use a Returns the list of permitted input methods set by this device or profile owner. Called by profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to check whether personal apps are suspended. Gets the password complexity requirement set by Determine for how long the user will be able to use secondary, non strong auth for authentication, since last strong method authentication (password, pin or pattern) was used. Determine whether or not screen capture has been disabled by the calling admin, if specified, or all admins. Called by a device owner to list all secondary users on the device. Called by a device admin to get the short support message. Returns the user session start message. This method was deprecated in API level 30. This method only returns the value set by Called by an application that is administering the device to determine the current encryption status of the device. Retrieve a local system update policy set previously by Returns the data passed from the current administrator to the new administrator during an ownership transfer. Gets configuration for the given trust agent based on aggregating all calls to Returns the list of packages over which user control is disabled by the device owner. Called by a profile or device owner to get user restrictions set with Called by device owner, or profile owner on organization-owned device, to get the MAC address of the Wi-Fi device. Called by a device or profile owner, or delegated certificate chooser (an app that has been delegated the Called by a device or profile owner, or delegated certificate chooser (an app that has been delegated the Returns whether this certificate is installed as a trusted CA. Returns true if an administrator has been granted a particular device policy. This API can be called by the following to query whether a certificate and private key are installed under a given alias: Called by a device owner or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to determine whether the user is prevented from modifying networks configured by the admin. Installs the given certificate as a user CA. Install an existing package that has been installed in another user, or has been kept after removal via This API can be called by the following to install a certificate chain and corresponding private key for the leaf certificate: This API can be called by the following to install a certificate chain and corresponding private key for the leaf certificate: This API can be called by the following to install a certificate and corresponding private key: Called by device owner or profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to install a system update from the given file. Determines whether the calling user's current password meets policy requirements (e.g. quality, minimum length). Called by profile owner of a managed profile to determine whether the current device password meets policy requirements set explicitly device-wide. Return true if the given administrator component is currently active (enabled) in the system. Returns whether this user is affiliated with the device. Called by device or profile owner to query whether current always-on VPN is configured in lockdown mode. Determine if a package is hidden. Return whether the backup service is enabled by the device owner or profile owner for the current user, as previously set by This method was deprecated in API level 26. From Returns whether Common Criteria mode is currently enabled. Called by a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to query whether it needs to acknowledge device compliance to allow the user to turn the profile off if needed according to the maximum profile time off policy. Returns Used to determine if a particular package has been registered as a Device Owner app. Checks if the profile owner is running in an ephemeral user. Called by a device or profile owner, or delegated certificate chooser (an app that has been delegated the This function lets the caller know whether the given component is allowed to start the lock task mode. Returns whether logout is enabled by a device owner. Return if this user is a managed profile of another user. Called by profile or device owners to check whether the global volume mute is on or off. Return whether network logging is enabled by a device owner or profile owner of a managed profile. Apps can use this method to find out if the device was provisioned as organization-owend device with a managed profile. Called by device owner to check if override APNs are currently enabled. Determine if a package is suspended. Indicates whether preferential network service is enabled. Used to determine if a particular package is registered as the profile owner for the user. Returns whether it is possible for the caller to initiate provisioning of a managed profile or device, setting itself as the device or profile owner. Called by a profile or device owner to check if the current reset password token is active. Checks if it's safe to run operations that can be affected by the given Return whether security logging is enabled or not by the admin. Check whether the user has been blocked by device policy from uninstalling a package. Returns Returns whether USB data signaling is currently enabled. When called by a profile owner of a managed profile returns true if the profile uses unified challenge with its parent user. Gets the list of Make the device lock immediately, as if the lock screen timeout has expired at the point of this call. Make the device lock immediately, as if the lock screen timeout has expired at the point of this call. Called by a profile owner of secondary user that is affiliated with the device to stop the calling user and switch back to primary user. Called by device owner to reboot the device. Remove a current administration component. Called by the profile owner of a managed profile to disable widget providers from a given package to be available in the parent profile. This API can be called by the following to remove a certificate and private key pair installed under a given alias: From Android Called by device owner to remove an override APN. Called by a device owner to remove a user/profile and all associated data. Called by a device owner to request a bugreport. This method was deprecated in API level 30. Please use Called by device or profile owner to force set a new device unlock password or a managed profile challenge on current user. Called by device owner, profile owner of a managed profile or delegated app with Called by device owner or profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to retrieve device logs from before the device's last reboot. Called by device owner or profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to retrieve all new security logging entries since the last call to this API after device boots. Called by a device or profile owner, or delegated certificate chooser (an app that has been delegated the Called by a device or profile owner, or delegated certificate chooser (an app that has been delegated the Called by a device owner or profile owner to disable account management for a specific type of account. Indicates the entity that controls the device. Called by a device or profile owner to configure an always-on VPN connection through a specific application for the current user. A version of Hide or unhide packages. Sets the application restrictions for a given target application running in the calling user. This method was deprecated in API level 26. From Called by a device owner, a profile owner for the primary user or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to turn auto time on and off. This method was deprecated in API level 30. From Called by a device owner, a profile owner for the primary user or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to turn auto time zone on and off. Allows the device owner or profile owner to enable or disable the backup service. Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to set whether bluetooth devices can access enterprise contacts. Called by an application that is administering the device to disable all cameras on the device, for this user. This method was deprecated in API level 26. From Called by device owner or profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to toggle Common Criteria mode for the device. Called by a device owner or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to control whether the user can change networks configured by the admin. Allows a set of packages to access cross-profile calendar APIs. Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to set whether caller-Id information from the managed profile will be shown in the parent profile, for incoming calls. Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to set whether contacts search from the managed profile will be shown in the parent profile, for incoming calls. Sets the set of admin-allowlisted package names that are allowed to request user consent for cross-profile communication. Must be called by a device owner or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to set the default SMS application. Called by a profile owner or device owner to grant access to privileged APIs to another app. Sets the device owner information to be shown on the lock screen. Called by a device owner to specify the user session end message. Callable by device owner or profile owner of an organization-owned device, to set a factory reset protection (FRP) policy. Sets the global Private DNS mode to opportunistic. Sets the global Private DNS host to be used. This method is mostly deprecated. Set a list of apps to keep around as APKs even if no user has currently installed it. This API can be called by the following to associate certificates with a key pair that was generated using From Android Called by a device owner or profile owner of secondary users that is affiliated with the device to disable the keyguard altogether. Called by an application that is administering the device to disable keyguard customizations, such as widgets. Called by device owners to set the user's global location setting. Sets which system features are enabled when the device runs in lock task mode. Sets which packages may enter lock task mode. Called by a device owner to specify whether logout is enabled for all secondary users. Called by a device admin to set the long support message. Called by a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to set maximum time the profile is allowed to be turned off. Called by profile or device owners to set the global volume mute on or off. Setting this to a value greater than zero enables a built-in policy that will perform a device or profile wipe after too many incorrect device-unlock passwords have been entered. Called by an application that is administering the device to set the maximum time for user activity until the device will lock. Called by a device or profile owner to restrict packages from using metered data. Called by a device/profile owner to set nearby app streaming policy. Called by a device/profile owner to set nearby notification streaming policy. Called by a device owner, profile owner of a managed profile or delegated app with This method was deprecated in API level 31. From Sets the Enterprise ID for the work profile or managed device. Called by the device owner (since API 26) or profile owner (since API 24) to set the name of the organization under management. Called by device owner to set if override APNs should be enabled. Called by device or profile owners to suspend packages for this user. Called by a device admin to set the password expiration timeout. Called by an application that is administering the device to set the length of the password history. This method was deprecated in API level 31. see This method was deprecated in API level 31. see This method was deprecated in API level 31. see This method was deprecated in API level 31. see This method was deprecated in API level 31. see This method was deprecated in API level 31. see This method was deprecated in API level 31. see This method was deprecated in API level 31. Prefer using Sets the grant state of a runtime permission for a specific application. Set the default response for future runtime permission requests by applications. Called by a profile or device owner to set the permitted Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to set the packages that are allowed to use a Called by a profile or device owner to set the permitted input methods services for this user. Called by a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to suspend personal apps on the device. Sets whether preferential network service is enabled on the work profile. Sets the enabled state of the profile. Sets the name of the profile. Set a network-independent global HTTP proxy. Sets a minimum password complexity requirement for the user's screen lock. Called by a device/profile owner to set the timeout after which unlocking with secondary, non strong auth (e.g. fingerprint, face, trust agents) times out, i.e. Called by a profile or device owner to provision a token which can later be used to reset the device lockscreen password (if called by device owner), or managed profile challenge (if called by profile owner), via Designates a specific service component as the provider for making permission requests of a local or remote administrator of the user. Called by a device/profile owner to set whether the screen capture is disabled. This method is mostly deprecated. Called by device owner or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to control the security logging feature. Called by a device admin to set the short support message. Called by a device owner to specify the user session start message. Called by device owner or profile owner of secondary users that is affiliated with the device to disable the status bar. This method was deprecated in API level 30. This method does not actually modify the storage encryption of the device. It has never affected the encryption status of a device. Called by an application that is administering the device to request that the storage system be encrypted. Does nothing if the caller is on a secondary user or a managed profile. When multiple device administrators attempt to control device encryption, the most secure, supported setting will always be used. If any device administrator requests device encryption, it will be enabled; Conversely, if a device administrator attempts to disable device encryption while another device administrator has enabled it, the call to disable will fail (most commonly returning This policy controls encryption of the secure (application data) storage area. Data written to other storage areas may or may not be encrypted, and this policy does not require or control the encryption of any other storage areas. There is one exception: If Important Note: On some devices, it is possible to encrypt storage without requiring the user to create a device PIN or Password. In this case, the storage is encrypted, but the encryption key may not be fully secured. For maximum security, the administrator should also require (and check for) a pattern, PIN, or password. When multiple device administrators attempt to control device encryption, the most secure, supported setting will always be used. If any device administrator requests device encryption, it will be enabled; Conversely, if a device administrator attempts to disable device encryption while another device administrator has enabled it, the call to disable will fail (most commonly returning This policy controls encryption of the secure (application data) storage area. Data written to other storage areas may or may not be encrypted, and this policy does not require or control the encryption of any other storage areas. There is one exception: If Important Note: On some devices, it is possible to encrypt storage without requiring the user to create a device PIN or Password. In this case, the storage is encrypted, but the encryption key may not be fully secured. For maximum security, the administrator should also require (and check for) a pattern, PIN, or password. Called by a device or profile owner to update Called by device owners or profile owners of an organization-owned managed profile to to set a local system update policy. Called by a device owner or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to set the system wall clock time. Called by a device owner or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to set the system's persistent default time zone. Sets a list of configuration features to enable for a trust agent component. Change whether a user can uninstall a package. Called by device owner or profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to enable or disable USB data signaling for the device. Called by Device owner to disable user control over apps. Called by profile or device owners to set the user's photo. Called by a device owner to start the specified secondary user in background. Called by a device owner to stop the specified secondary user. Called by a device owner to switch the specified secondary user to the foreground. Changes the current administrator to another one. Uninstalls all custom trusted CA certificates from the profile. Uninstalls the given certificate from trusted user CAs, if present. Called by device owner to update an override APN. Ask that all user data be wiped. Ask that all user data be wiped. Inherited methods From class Constants ACTION_ADD_DEVICE_ADMIN public static final String ACTION_ADD_DEVICE_ADMIN Activity action: ask the user to add a new device administrator to the system. The desired policy is the ComponentName of the policy in the EXTRA_DEVICE_ADMIN extra field. This will invoke a UI to bring the user through adding the device administrator to the system (or allowing them to reject it). You can optionally include the EXTRA_ADD_EXPLANATION field to provide the user with additional explanation (in addition to your component's description) about what is being added. If your administrator is already active, this will ordinarily return immediately (without user intervention). However, if your administrator has been updated and is requesting additional uses-policy flags, the user will be presented with the new list. New policies will not be available to the updated administrator until the user has accepted the new list. Constant Value: "android.app.action.ADD_DEVICE_ADMIN" ACTION_ADMIN_POLICY_COMPLIANCE public static final String ACTION_ADMIN_POLICY_COMPLIANCE Activity action: Starts the administrator to show policy compliance for the provisioning. This action is used any time that the administrator has an opportunity to show policy compliance before the end of setup wizard. This could happen as part of the admin-integrated provisioning flow (in which case this gets sent after ACTION_GET_PROVISIONING_MODE), or it could happen during provisioning finalization if the administrator supports finalization during setup wizard. Intents with this action may also be supplied with the EXTRA_PROVISIONING_ADMIN_EXTRAS_BUNDLE extra. Constant Value: "android.app.action.ADMIN_POLICY_COMPLIANCE" ACTION_APPLICATION_DELEGATION_SCOPES_CHANGED public static final String ACTION_APPLICATION_DELEGATION_SCOPES_CHANGED Broadcast Action: Sent after application delegation scopes are changed. The new delegation scopes will be sent in an ArrayList<String> extra identified by the EXTRA_DELEGATION_SCOPES key. Note: This is a protected intent that can only be sent by the system. Constant Value: "android.app.action.APPLICATION_DELEGATION_SCOPES_CHANGED" ACTION_CHECK_POLICY_COMPLIANCE public static final String ACTION_CHECK_POLICY_COMPLIANCE Activity action: launch the DPC to check policy compliance. This intent is launched when the user taps on the notification about personal apps suspension. When handling this intent the DPC must check if personal apps should still be suspended and either unsuspend them or instruct the user on how to resolve the noncompliance causing the suspension. Constant Value: "android.app.action.CHECK_POLICY_COMPLIANCE" ACTION_DEVICE_ADMIN_SERVICE public static final String ACTION_DEVICE_ADMIN_SERVICE Service action: Action for a service that device owner and profile owner can optionally own. If a device owner or a profile owner has such a service, the system tries to keep a bound connection to it, in order to keep their process always running. The service must be protected with the Manifest.permission.BIND_DEVICE_ADMIN permission. Constant Value: "android.app.action.DEVICE_ADMIN_SERVICE" ACTION_DEVICE_OWNER_CHANGED public static final String ACTION_DEVICE_OWNER_CHANGED Broadcast action: sent when the device owner is set, changed or cleared. This broadcast is sent only to the primary user. See also: Constant Value: "android.app.action.DEVICE_OWNER_CHANGED" ACTION_GET_PROVISIONING_MODE public static final String ACTION_GET_PROVISIONING_MODE Activity action: Starts the administrator to get the mode for the provisioning. This intent may contain the following extras: The target activity should return one of the following values in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_MODE as result: If performing fully-managed device provisioning and the admin app desires to show its own education screens, the target activity can additionally return EXTRA_PROVISIONING_SKIP_EDUCATION_SCREENS set to true. The target activity may also return the account that needs to be migrated from primary user to managed profile in case of a profile owner provisioning in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_ACCOUNT_TO_MIGRATE as result. The target activity may also include the EXTRA_PROVISIONING_ADMIN_EXTRAS_BUNDLE extra in the intent result. The values of this PersistableBundle will be sent as an intent extra of the same name to the ACTION_ADMIN_POLICY_COMPLIANCE activity, along with the values of the EXTRA_PROVISIONING_ADMIN_EXTRAS_BUNDLE extra that are already supplied to this activity. See also: Constant Value: "android.app.action.GET_PROVISIONING_MODE" ACTION_MANAGED_PROFILE_PROVISIONED public static final String ACTION_MANAGED_PROFILE_PROVISIONED Broadcast Action: This broadcast is sent to indicate that provisioning of a managed profile has completed successfully. The broadcast is limited to the primary profile, to the app specified in the provisioning intent with action ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_PROFILE. This intent will contain the following extras Intent#EXTRA_USER, corresponds to the UserHandleof the managed profile. EXTRA_PROVISIONING_ACCOUNT_TO_MIGRATE, corresponds to the account requested to be migrated at provisioning time, if any. Constant Value: "android.app.action.MANAGED_PROFILE_PROVISIONED" ACTION_PROFILE_OWNER_CHANGED public static final String ACTION_PROFILE_OWNER_CHANGED Broadcast action: sent when the profile owner is set, changed or cleared. This broadcast is sent only to the user managed by the new profile owner. Constant Value: "android.app.action.PROFILE_OWNER_CHANGED" ACTION_PROVISIONING_SUCCESSFUL public static final String ACTION_PROVISIONING_SUCCESSFUL Activity action: This activity action is sent to indicate that provisioning of a managed profile or managed device has completed successfully. It'll be sent at the same time as DeviceAdminReceiver#ACTION_PROFILE_PROVISIONING_COMPLETE broadcast but this will be delivered faster as it's an activity intent. The intent is only sent to the new device or profile owner. Constant Value: "android.app.action.PROVISIONING_SUCCESSFUL" ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_DEVICE Deprecated in API level 31 public static final String ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_DEVICE This constant was deprecated in API level 31. to support Build.VERSION_CODES.S and later, admin apps must implement activities with intent filters for the ACTION_GET_PROVISIONING_MODE and ACTION_ADMIN_POLICY_COMPLIANCE intent actions; using ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_DEVICE to start provisioning will cause the provisioning to fail; to additionally support pre- Build.VERSION_CODES.S, admin apps must also continue to use this constant. Activity action: Starts the provisioning flow which sets up a managed device. Must be started with Activity.startActivityForResult(Intent, int). During device owner provisioning a device admin app is set as the owner of the device. A device owner has full control over the device. The device owner can not be modified by the user. A typical use case would be a device that is owned by a company, but used by either an employee or client. An intent with this action can be sent only on an unprovisioned device. It is possible to check if provisioning is allowed or not by querying the method isProvisioningAllowed(java.lang.String). The intent contains the following extras: EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_COMPONENT_NAME EXTRA_PROVISIONING_SKIP_ENCRYPTION, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_LEAVE_ALL_SYSTEM_APPS_ENABLED, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_ADMIN_EXTRAS_BUNDLE, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_LOGO_URI, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DISCLAIMERS, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_SKIP_EDUCATION_SCREENS, optional When device owner provisioning has completed, an intent of the type DeviceAdminReceiver#ACTION_PROFILE_PROVISIONING_COMPLETE is broadcast to the device owner. From version Build.VERSION_CODES.O, when device owner provisioning has completed, along with the above broadcast, activity intent ACTION_PROVISIONING_SUCCESSFUL will also be sent to the device owner. If provisioning fails, the device is factory reset. A result code of Activity.RESULT_OK implies that the synchronous part of the provisioning flow was successful, although this doesn't guarantee the full flow will succeed. Conversely a result code of Activity.RESULT_CANCELED implies that the user backed-out of provisioning, or some precondition for provisioning wasn't met. Constant Value: "android.app.action.PROVISION_MANAGED_DEVICE" ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_PROFILE public static final String ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_PROFILE Activity action: Starts the provisioning flow which sets up a managed profile. A managed profile allows data separation for example for the usage of a device as a personal and corporate device. The user which provisioning is started from and the managed profile share a launcher. This intent will typically be sent by a mobile device management application (MDM). Provisioning adds a managed profile and sets the MDM as the profile owner who has full control over the profile. It is possible to check if provisioning is allowed or not by querying the method isProvisioningAllowed(java.lang.String). In version Build.VERSION_CODES.LOLLIPOP, this intent must contain the extra EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_NAME. As of Build.VERSION_CODES.M, it should contain the extra EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_COMPONENT_NAME instead, although specifying only EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_NAME is still supported. The intent may also contain the following extras: EXTRA_PROVISIONING_ACCOUNT_TO_MIGRATE, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_SKIP_ENCRYPTION, optional, supported from Build.VERSION_CODES.N EXTRA_PROVISIONING_ADMIN_EXTRAS_BUNDLE, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_LOGO_URI, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_SKIP_USER_CONSENT, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_KEEP_ACCOUNT_ON_MIGRATION, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DISCLAIMERS, optional When managed provisioning has completed, broadcasts are sent to the application specified in the provisioning intent. The DeviceAdminReceiver#ACTION_PROFILE_PROVISIONING_COMPLETE broadcast is sent in the managed profile and the ACTION_MANAGED_PROFILE_PROVISIONED broadcast is sent in the primary profile. From version Build.VERSION_CODES.O, when managed provisioning has completed, along with the above broadcast, activity intent ACTION_PROVISIONING_SUCCESSFUL will also be sent to the profile owner. If provisioning fails, the managedProfile is removed so the device returns to its previous state. If launched with Activity.startActivityForResult(Intent, int) a result code of Activity.RESULT_OK implies that the synchronous part of the provisioning flow was successful, although this doesn't guarantee the full flow will succeed. Conversely a result code of Activity.RESULT_CANCELED implies that the user backed-out of provisioning, or some precondition for provisioning wasn't met. Constant Value: "android.app.action.PROVISION_MANAGED_PROFILE" ACTION_SET_NEW_PARENT_PROFILE_PASSWORD public static final String ACTION_SET_NEW_PARENT_PROFILE_PASSWORD Activity action: have the user enter a new password for the parent profile. If the intent is launched from within a managed profile, this will trigger entering a new password for the parent of the profile. The caller can optionally set EXTRA_DEVICE_PASSWORD_REQUIREMENT_ONLY to only enforce device-wide password requirement. In all other cases the behaviour is identical to ACTION_SET_NEW_PASSWORD. Constant Value: "android.app.action.SET_NEW_PARENT_PROFILE_PASSWORD" ACTION_SET_NEW_PASSWORD public static final String ACTION_SET_NEW_PASSWORD Activity action: have the user enter a new password. For admin apps, this activity should be launched after using setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int), or setPasswordMinimumLength(android.content.ComponentName, int) to have the user enter a new password that meets the current requirements. You can use isActivePasswordSufficient() to determine whether you need to have the user select a new password in order to meet the current constraints. Upon being resumed from this activity, you can check the new password characteristics to see if they are sufficient. Non-admin apps can use getPasswordComplexity() to check the current screen lock complexity, and use this activity with extra EXTRA_PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY to suggest to users how complex the app wants the new screen lock to be. Note that both getPasswordComplexity() and the extra EXTRA_PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY require the calling app to have the permission permission#REQUEST_PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY. If the intent is launched from within a managed profile with a profile owner built against Build.VERSION_CODES.M or before, this will trigger entering a new password for the parent of the profile. For all other cases it will trigger entering a new password for the user or profile it is launched from. Constant Value: "android.app.action.SET_NEW_PASSWORD" ACTION_START_ENCRYPTION public static final String ACTION_START_ENCRYPTION Activity action: begin the process of encrypting data on the device. This activity should be launched after using setStorageEncryption(ComponentName, boolean) to request encryption be activated. After resuming from this activity, use getStorageEncryption(ComponentName) to check encryption status. However, on some devices this activity may never return, as it may trigger a reboot and in some cases a complete data wipe of the device. Constant Value: "android.app.action.START_ENCRYPTION" ACTION_SYSTEM_UPDATE_POLICY_CHANGED public static final String ACTION_SYSTEM_UPDATE_POLICY_CHANGED Broadcast action: notify that a new local system update policy has been set by the device owner. The new policy can be retrieved by getSystemUpdatePolicy(). Constant Value: "android.app.action.SYSTEM_UPDATE_POLICY_CHANGED" DELEGATION_APP_RESTRICTIONS public static final String DELEGATION_APP_RESTRICTIONS Delegation of application restrictions management. This scope grants access to the setApplicationRestrictions(ComponentName, String, Bundle) and getApplicationRestrictions(ComponentName, String) APIs. Constant Value: "delegation-app-restrictions" DELEGATION_BLOCK_UNINSTALL public static final String DELEGATION_BLOCK_UNINSTALL Delegation of application uninstall block. This scope grants access to the setUninstallBlocked(ComponentName, String, boolean) API. Constant Value: "delegation-block-uninstall" DELEGATION_CERT_INSTALL public static final String DELEGATION_CERT_INSTALL Delegation of certificate installation and management. This scope grants access to the getInstalledCaCerts(ComponentName), hasCaCertInstalled(ComponentName, byte[]), installCaCert(ComponentName, byte[]), uninstallCaCert(ComponentName, byte[]), uninstallAllUserCaCerts(ComponentName) and installKeyPair(ComponentName, PrivateKey, Certificate, String) APIs. This scope also grants the ability to read identifiers that the delegating device owner or profile owner can obtain. See getEnrollmentSpecificId(). Constant Value: "delegation-cert-install" DELEGATION_CERT_SELECTION public static final String DELEGATION_CERT_SELECTION Grants access to selection of KeyChain certificates on behalf of requesting apps. Once granted the app will start receiving DelegatedAdminReceiver#onChoosePrivateKeyAlias. The caller (PO/DO) will no longer receive DeviceAdminReceiver#onChoosePrivateKeyAlias. There can be at most one app that has this delegation. If another app already had delegated certificate selection access, it will lose the delegation when a new app is delegated. The delegaetd app can also call grantKeyPairToApp(ComponentName, String, String) and revokeKeyPairFromApp(ComponentName, String, String) to directly grant KeyCain keys to other apps. Can be granted by Device Owner or Profile Owner. Constant Value: "delegation-cert-selection" DELEGATION_ENABLE_SYSTEM_APP public static final String DELEGATION_ENABLE_SYSTEM_APP Delegation for enabling system apps. This scope grants access to the enableSystemApp(ComponentName, Intent) API. Constant Value: "delegation-enable-system-app" DELEGATION_INSTALL_EXISTING_PACKAGE public static final String DELEGATION_INSTALL_EXISTING_PACKAGE Delegation for installing existing packages. This scope grants access to the installExistingPackage(ComponentName, String) API. Constant Value: "delegation-install-existing-package" DELEGATION_KEEP_UNINSTALLED_PACKAGES public static final String DELEGATION_KEEP_UNINSTALLED_PACKAGES Delegation of management of uninstalled packages. This scope grants access to the setKeepUninstalledPackages(ComponentName, List and getKeepUninstalledPackages(ComponentName) APIs. Constant Value: "delegation-keep-uninstalled-packages" DELEGATION_NETWORK_LOGGING public static final String DELEGATION_NETWORK_LOGGING Grants access to setNetworkLoggingEnabled(ComponentName, boolean), isNetworkLoggingEnabled(ComponentName) and retrieveNetworkLogs(ComponentName, long). Once granted the delegated app will start receiving DelegatedAdminReceiver.onNetworkLogsAvailable() callback, and Device owner or Profile Owner will no longer receive the DeviceAdminReceiver.onNetworkLogsAvailable() callback. There can be at most one app that has this delegation. If another app already had delegated network logging access, it will lose the delegation when a new app is delegated. Can only be granted by Device Owner or Profile Owner of a managed profile. Constant Value: "delegation-network-logging" DELEGATION_PACKAGE_ACCESS public static final String DELEGATION_PACKAGE_ACCESS Delegation of package access state. This scope grants access to the isApplicationHidden(ComponentName, String), setApplicationHidden(ComponentName, String, boolean), isPackageSuspended(ComponentName, String), and setPackagesSuspended(ComponentName, String[], boolean) APIs. Constant Value: "delegation-package-access" DELEGATION_PERMISSION_GRANT public static final String DELEGATION_PERMISSION_GRANT Delegation of permission policy and permission grant state. This scope grants access to the setPermissionPolicy(ComponentName, int), getPermissionGrantState(ComponentName, String, String), and setPermissionGrantState(ComponentName, String, String, int) APIs. Constant Value: "delegation-permission-grant" DELEGATION_SECURITY_LOGGING public static final String DELEGATION_SECURITY_LOGGING Grants access to setSecurityLoggingEnabled(ComponentName, boolean), isSecurityLoggingEnabled(ComponentName), retrieveSecurityLogs(ComponentName), and retrievePreRebootSecurityLogs(ComponentName). Once granted the delegated app will start receiving DelegatedAdminReceiver#onSecurityLogsAvailable callback, and Device owner or Profile Owner will no longer receive the DeviceAdminReceiver#onSecurityLogsAvailable callback. There can be at most one app that has this delegation. If another app already had delegated security logging access, it will lose the delegation when a new app is delegated. Can only be granted by Device Owner or Profile Owner of an organnization owned and managed profile. Constant Value: "delegation-security-logging" ENCRYPTION_STATUS_ACTIVATING public static final int ENCRYPTION_STATUS_ACTIVATING Result code for getStorageEncryptionStatus(): indicating that encryption is not currently active, but is currently being activated. This is only reported by devices that support encryption of data and only when the storage is currently undergoing a process of becoming encrypted. A device that must reboot and/or wipe data to become encrypted will never return this value. Constant Value: 2 (0x00000002) ENCRYPTION_STATUS_ACTIVE public static final int ENCRYPTION_STATUS_ACTIVE Result code for setStorageEncryption(ComponentName, boolean) and getStorageEncryptionStatus(): indicating that encryption is active. Also see ENCRYPTION_STATUS_ACTIVE_PER_USER. Constant Value: 3 (0x00000003) ENCRYPTION_STATUS_ACTIVE_DEFAULT_KEY public static final int ENCRYPTION_STATUS_ACTIVE_DEFAULT_KEY Result code for getStorageEncryptionStatus(): indicating that encryption is active, but an encryption key has not been set by the user. Constant Value: 4 (0x00000004) ENCRYPTION_STATUS_ACTIVE_PER_USER public static final int ENCRYPTION_STATUS_ACTIVE_PER_USER Result code for getStorageEncryptionStatus(): indicating that encryption is active and the encryption key is tied to the user or profile. This value is only returned to apps targeting API level 24 and above. For apps targeting earlier API levels, ENCRYPTION_STATUS_ACTIVE is returned, even if the encryption key is specific to the user or profile. Constant Value: 5 (0x00000005) ENCRYPTION_STATUS_INACTIVE public static final int ENCRYPTION_STATUS_INACTIVE Result code for setStorageEncryption(ComponentName, boolean) and getStorageEncryptionStatus(): indicating that encryption is supported, but is not currently active. Constant Value: 1 (0x00000001) ENCRYPTION_STATUS_UNSUPPORTED public static final int ENCRYPTION_STATUS_UNSUPPORTED Result code for setStorageEncryption(ComponentName, boolean) and getStorageEncryptionStatus(): indicating that encryption is not supported. Constant Value: 0 (0x00000000) EXTRA_ADD_EXPLANATION public static final String EXTRA_ADD_EXPLANATION An optional CharSequence providing additional explanation for why the admin is being added. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.ADD_EXPLANATION" EXTRA_DELEGATION_SCOPES public static final String EXTRA_DELEGATION_SCOPES An ArrayList<String> corresponding to the delegation scopes given to an app in the ACTION_APPLICATION_DELEGATION_SCOPES_CHANGED broadcast. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.DELEGATION_SCOPES" EXTRA_DEVICE_ADMIN public static final String EXTRA_DEVICE_ADMIN The ComponentName of the administrator component. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.DEVICE_ADMIN" EXTRA_DEVICE_PASSWORD_REQUIREMENT_ONLY public static final String EXTRA_DEVICE_PASSWORD_REQUIREMENT_ONLY A boolean extra for ACTION_SET_NEW_PARENT_PROFILE_PASSWORD requesting that only device password requirement is enforced during the parent profile password enrolment flow. Normally when enrolling password for the parent profile, both the device-wide password requirement (requirement set via getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) instance) and the profile password requirement are enforced, if the profile currently does not have a separate work challenge. By setting this to true, profile password requirement is explicitly disregarded. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.DEVICE_PASSWORD_REQUIREMENT_ONLY" EXTRA_PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY public static final String EXTRA_PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY An integer indicating the complexity level of the new password an app would like the user to set when launching the action ACTION_SET_NEW_PASSWORD. Must be one of PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_HIGH PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_MEDIUM PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_LOW PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_NONE If an invalid value is used, it will be treated as PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_NONE. Requires Manifest.permission.REQUEST_PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_ACCOUNT_TO_MIGRATE public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_ACCOUNT_TO_MIGRATE An Account extra holding the account to migrate during managed profile provisioning. If the account supplied is present in the primary user, it will be copied, along with its credentials to the managed profile and removed from the primary user. Use with ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_PROFILE, with managed account provisioning, or return as an extra to the intent result from the ACTION_GET_PROVISIONING_MODE activity. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_ACCOUNT_TO_MIGRATE" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_ADMIN_EXTRAS_BUNDLE public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_ADMIN_EXTRAS_BUNDLE A Parcelable extra of type PersistableBundle that allows a mobile device management application or NFC programmer application which starts managed provisioning to pass data to the management application instance after provisioning. If used with ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_PROFILE it can be used by the application that sends the intent to pass data to itself on the newly created profile. If used with ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_DEVICE it allows passing data to the same instance of the app on the primary user. Starting from Build.VERSION_CODES.M, if used with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC as part of NFC managed device provisioning, the NFC message should contain a stringified Properties instance, whose string properties will be converted into a PersistableBundle and passed to the management application after provisioning. Admin apps will receive this extra in their ACTION_GET_PROVISIONING_MODE and ACTION_ADMIN_POLICY_COMPLIANCE intent handlers. Additionally, ACTION_GET_PROVISIONING_MODE may also return this extra which will then be sent over to ACTION_ADMIN_POLICY_COMPLIANCE, alongside the original values that were passed to ACTION_GET_PROVISIONING_MODE. In both cases the application receives the data in DeviceAdminReceiver#onProfileProvisioningComplete via an intent with the action DeviceAdminReceiver#ACTION_PROFILE_PROVISIONING_COMPLETE. The bundle is not changed during the managed provisioning. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_ADMIN_EXTRAS_BUNDLE" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_ALLOWED_PROVISIONING_MODES public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_ALLOWED_PROVISIONING_MODES An ArrayList of Integer extra specifying the allowed provisioning modes. This extra will be passed to the admin app's ACTION_GET_PROVISIONING_MODE activity, whose result intent must contain EXTRA_PROVISIONING_MODE set to one of the values in this array. If the value set to EXTRA_PROVISIONING_MODE is not in the array, provisioning will fail. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_ALLOWED_PROVISIONING_MODES" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_COMPONENT_NAME public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_COMPONENT_NAME A ComponentName extra indicating the device admin receiver of the mobile device management application that will be set as the profile owner or device owner and active admin. If an application starts provisioning directly via an intent with action ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_PROFILE or ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_DEVICE the package name of this component has to match the package name of the application that started provisioning. This component is set as device owner and active admin when device owner provisioning is started by an intent with action ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_DEVICE or by an NFC message containing an NFC record with MIME type MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC. For the NFC record, the component name must be flattened to a string, via ComponentName#flattenToShortString(). See also: Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_COMPONENT_NAME" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_MINIMUM_VERSION_CODE public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_MINIMUM_VERSION_CODE An int extra holding a minimum required version code for the device admin package. If the device admin is already installed on the device, it will only be re-downloaded from EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_DOWNLOAD_LOCATION if the version of the installed package is less than this version code. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_MINIMUM_VERSION_CODE" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_CHECKSUM public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_CHECKSUM A String extra holding the URL-safe base64 encoded SHA-256 hash of the file at download location specified in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_DOWNLOAD_LOCATION. Either this extra or EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_SIGNATURE_CHECKSUM must be present. The provided checksum must match the checksum of the file at the download location. If the checksum doesn't match an error will be shown to the user and the user will be asked to factory reset the device. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. Note: for devices running Build.VERSION_CODES.LOLLIPOP and Build.VERSION_CODES.LOLLIPOP_MR1 only SHA-1 hash is supported. Starting from Build.VERSION_CODES.M, this parameter accepts SHA-256 in addition to SHA-1. From Build.VERSION_CODES.Q, only SHA-256 hash is supported. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_CHECKSUM" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_DOWNLOAD_COOKIE_HEADER public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_DOWNLOAD_COOKIE_HEADER A String extra holding a http cookie header which should be used in the http request to the url specified in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_DOWNLOAD_LOCATION. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_DOWNLOAD_COOKIE_HEADER" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_DOWNLOAD_LOCATION public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_DOWNLOAD_LOCATION A String extra holding a url that specifies the download location of the device admin package. When not provided it is assumed that the device admin package is already installed. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_DOWNLOAD_LOCATION" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_NAME Deprecated in API level 23 public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_NAME This constant was deprecated in API level 23. Use EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_COMPONENT_NAME. This extra is still supported, but only if there is only one device admin receiver in the package that requires the permission Manifest.permission.BIND_DEVICE_ADMIN. A String extra holding the package name of the mobile device management application that will be set as the profile owner or device owner. If an application starts provisioning directly via an intent with action ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_PROFILE this package has to match the package name of the application that started provisioning. The package will be set as profile owner in that case. This package is set as device owner when device owner provisioning is started by an NFC message containing an NFC record with MIME type MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC. When this extra is set, the application must have exactly one device admin receiver. This receiver will be set as the profile or device owner and active admin. See also: Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_NAME" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_SIGNATURE_CHECKSUM public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_SIGNATURE_CHECKSUM A String extra holding the URL-safe base64 encoded SHA-256 checksum of any signature of the android package archive at the download location specified in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_DOWNLOAD_LOCATION. The signatures of an android package archive can be obtained using PackageManager.getPackageArchiveInfo(String, PackageManager.PackageInfoFlags) with flag PackageManager.GET_SIGNATURES. Either this extra or EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_CHECKSUM must be present. The provided checksum must match the checksum of any signature of the file at the download location. If the checksum does not match an error will be shown to the user and the user will be asked to factory reset the device. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_SIGNATURE_CHECKSUM" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DISCLAIMERS public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DISCLAIMERS A Bundle[] extra consisting of list of disclaimer headers and disclaimer contents. Each Bundle must have both EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DISCLAIMER_HEADER as disclaimer header, and EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DISCLAIMER_CONTENT as disclaimer content. The extra typically contains one disclaimer from the company of mobile device management application (MDM), and one disclaimer from the organization. Call Bundle#putParcelableArray(String, Parcelable[]) to put the Bundle[] Maximum 3 key-value pairs can be specified. The rest will be ignored. Can be used in an intent with action ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_PROFILE. This extra can also be returned by the admin app when performing the admin-integrated provisioning flow as a result of the ACTION_GET_PROVISIONING_MODE activity. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_DISCLAIMERS" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DISCLAIMER_CONTENT public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DISCLAIMER_CONTENT A Uri extra pointing to disclaimer content. The following URI schemes are accepted: Styled text is supported in the disclaimer content. The content is parsed by Html.fromHtml(String) and displayed in a TextView. If a content: URI is passed, URI is passed, the intent should have the flag Intent#FLAG_GRANT_READ_URI_PERMISSION and the uri should be added to the ClipData of the intent too. Use in Bundle EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DISCLAIMERS System app, i.e. application with ApplicationInfo#FLAG_SYSTEM, can also insert a disclaimer by declaring an application-level meta-data in AndroidManifest.xml. Must use it with EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DISCLAIMER_HEADER. Here is the example: <meta-data android:name="android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_DISCLAIMER_CONTENT" android:resource="@string/disclaimer_content" /> Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_DISCLAIMER_CONTENT" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DISCLAIMER_HEADER public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DISCLAIMER_HEADER A String extra of localized disclaimer header. The extra is typically the company name of mobile device management application (MDM) or the organization name. Use in Bundle EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DISCLAIMERS System app, i.e. application with ApplicationInfo#FLAG_SYSTEM, can also insert a disclaimer by declaring an application-level meta-data in AndroidManifest.xml. Must use it with EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DISCLAIMER_CONTENT. Here is the example: <meta-data android:name="android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_DISCLAIMER_HEADER" android:resource="@string/disclaimer_header" /> Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_DISCLAIMER_HEADER" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_EMAIL_ADDRESS public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_EMAIL_ADDRESS This constant was deprecated in API level 26. From Build.VERSION_CODES.O, never used while provisioning the device. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_EMAIL_ADDRESS" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_IMEI public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_IMEI A string extra holding the IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity) of the device. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_IMEI" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_KEEP_ACCOUNT_ON_MIGRATION public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_KEEP_ACCOUNT_ON_MIGRATION Boolean extra to indicate that the migrated account should be kept. This is used in conjunction with EXTRA_PROVISIONING_ACCOUNT_TO_MIGRATE. If it's set to true, the account will not be removed from the primary user after it is migrated to the newly created user or profile. Defaults to false Use with ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_PROFILE or set as an extra to the intent result of the ACTION_GET_PROVISIONING_MODE activity. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_KEEP_ACCOUNT_ON_MIGRATION" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_LEAVE_ALL_SYSTEM_APPS_ENABLED public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_LEAVE_ALL_SYSTEM_APPS_ENABLED A Boolean extra that can be used by the mobile device management application to skip the disabling of system apps during provisioning when set to true. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC, an intent with action ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_PROFILE that starts profile owner provisioning or set as an extra to the intent result of the ACTION_GET_PROVISIONING_MODE activity. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_LEAVE_ALL_SYSTEM_APPS_ENABLED" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_LOCALE public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_LOCALE A String extra holding the Locale that the device will be set to. Format: xx_yy, where xx is the language code, and yy the country code. Use only for device owner provisioning. This extra can be returned by the admin app when performing the admin-integrated provisioning flow as a result of the ACTION_GET_PROVISIONING_MODE activity. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_LOCALE" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_LOCAL_TIME public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_LOCAL_TIME A Long extra holding the wall clock time (in milliseconds) to be set on the device's AlarmManager. Use only for device owner provisioning. This extra can be returned by the admin app when performing the admin-integrated provisioning flow as a result of the ACTION_GET_PROVISIONING_MODE activity. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_LOCAL_TIME" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_LOGO_URI public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_LOGO_URI A Uri extra pointing to a logo image. This image will be shown during the provisioning. If this extra is not passed, a default image will be shown. The following URI schemes are accepted: It is the responsibility of the caller to provide an image with a reasonable pixel density for the device. If a content: URI is passed, the intent should have the flag Intent#FLAG_GRANT_READ_URI_PERMISSION and the uri should be added to the ClipData of the intent too. Use in an intent with action ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_PROFILE or ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_DEVICE Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_LOGO_URI" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_MAIN_COLOR public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_MAIN_COLOR This constant was deprecated in API level 31. Color customization is no longer supported in the provisioning flow. A integer extra indicating the predominant color to show during the provisioning. Refer to Color for how the color is represented. Use with ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_PROFILE or ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_DEVICE. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_MAIN_COLOR" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_MODE public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_MODE An intent extra holding the provisioning mode returned by the administrator. The value of this extra must be one of the values provided in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_ALLOWED_PROVISIONING_MODES, which is provided as an intent extra to the admin app's ACTION_GET_PROVISIONING_MODE activity. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_MODE" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_SENSORS_PERMISSION_GRANT_OPT_OUT public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_SENSORS_PERMISSION_GRANT_OPT_OUT A boolean extra indicating the admin of a fully-managed device opts out of controlling permission grants for sensor-related permissions, see setPermissionGrantState(android.content.ComponentName, java.lang.String, java.lang.String, int). The default for this extra is false - by default, the admin of a fully-managed device has the ability to grant sensors-related permissions. Use only for device owner provisioning. This extra can be returned by the admin app when performing the admin-integrated provisioning flow as a result of the ACTION_GET_PROVISIONING_MODE activity. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_SENSORS_PERMISSION_GRANT_OPT_OUT" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_SERIAL_NUMBER public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_SERIAL_NUMBER A string extra holding the serial number of the device. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_SERIAL_NUMBER" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_SKIP_EDUCATION_SCREENS public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_SKIP_EDUCATION_SCREENS A boolean extra indicating if the education screens from the provisioning flow should be skipped. If unspecified, defaults to false. This extra can be set in the following ways: - By the admin app when performing the admin-integrated provisioning flow as a result of the ACTION_GET_PROVISIONING_MODEactivity - For managed account enrollment If the education screens are skipped, it is the admin application's responsibility to display its own user education screens. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_SKIP_EDUCATION_SCREENS" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_SKIP_ENCRYPTION public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_SKIP_ENCRYPTION A boolean extra indicating whether device encryption can be skipped as part of device owner or managed profile provisioning. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC or an intent with action ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_DEVICE that starts device owner provisioning. From Build.VERSION_CODES.N onwards, this is also supported for an intent with action ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_PROFILE. This extra can also be returned by the admin app when performing the admin-integrated provisioning flow as a result of the ACTION_GET_PROVISIONING_MODE activity. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_SKIP_ENCRYPTION" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_SKIP_USER_CONSENT Deprecated in API level 31 public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_SKIP_USER_CONSENT This constant was deprecated in API level 31. this extra is no longer relevant as device owners cannot create managed profiles A boolean extra indicating if the user consent steps from the provisioning flow should be skipped. If unspecified, defaults to false. It can only be used by an existing device owner trying to create a managed profile via ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_PROFILE. Otherwise it is ignored. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_SKIP_USER_CONSENT" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_TIME_ZONE public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_TIME_ZONE A String extra holding the time zone AlarmManager that the device will be set to. Use only for device owner provisioning. This extra can be returned by the admin app when performing the admin-integrated provisioning flow as a result of the ACTION_GET_PROVISIONING_MODE activity. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_TIME_ZONE" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_ANONYMOUS_IDENTITY public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_ANONYMOUS_IDENTITY The anonymous identity of the wifi network in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SSID. This is only used if the EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SECURITY_TYPE is EAP. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. It can also be used for QR code provisioning. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_WIFI_ANONYMOUS_IDENTITY" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_CA_CERTIFICATE public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_CA_CERTIFICATE The CA certificate of the wifi network in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SSID. This should be an X.509 certificate Base64 encoded DER format, ie. PEM representation of a certificate without header, footer and line breaks. More information This is only used if the EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SECURITY_TYPE is EAP. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. It can also be used for QR code provisioning. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_WIFI_CA_CERTIFICATE" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_DOMAIN public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_DOMAIN The domain of the wifi network in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SSID. This is only used if the EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SECURITY_TYPE is EAP. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. It can also be used for QR code provisioning. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_WIFI_DOMAIN" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_EAP_METHOD public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_EAP_METHOD The EAP method of the wifi network in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SSID and could be one of PEAP, TLS, TTLS, PWD, SIM, AKA or AKA_PRIME. This is only used if the EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SECURITY_TYPE is EAP. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. It can also be used for QR code provisioning. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_WIFI_EAP_METHOD" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_HIDDEN public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_HIDDEN A boolean extra indicating whether the wifi network in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SSID is hidden or not. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_WIFI_HIDDEN" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_IDENTITY public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_IDENTITY The identity of the wifi network in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SSID. This is only used if the EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SECURITY_TYPE is EAP. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. It can also be used for QR code provisioning. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_WIFI_IDENTITY" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_PAC_URL public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_PAC_URL A String extra holding the proxy auto-config (PAC) URL for the wifi network in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SSID. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_WIFI_PAC_URL" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_PASSWORD public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_PASSWORD A String extra holding the password of the wifi network in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SSID. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_WIFI_PASSWORD" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_PHASE2_AUTH public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_PHASE2_AUTH The phase 2 authentication of the wifi network in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SSID and could be one of NONE, PAP, MSCHAP, MSCHAPV2, GTC, SIM, AKA or AKA_PRIME. This is only used if the EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SECURITY_TYPE is EAP. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. It can also be used for QR code provisioning. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_WIFI_PHASE2_AUTH" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_PROXY_BYPASS public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_PROXY_BYPASS A String extra holding the proxy bypass for the wifi network in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SSID. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_WIFI_PROXY_BYPASS" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_PROXY_HOST public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_PROXY_HOST A String extra holding the proxy host for the wifi network in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SSID. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_WIFI_PROXY_HOST" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_PROXY_PORT public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_PROXY_PORT An int extra holding the proxy port for the wifi network in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SSID. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_WIFI_PROXY_PORT" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SECURITY_TYPE public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SECURITY_TYPE A String extra indicating the security type of the wifi network in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SSID and could be one of NONE, WPA, WEP or EAP. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_WIFI_SECURITY_TYPE" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SSID public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SSID A String extra holding the ssid of the wifi network that should be used during nfc device owner provisioning for downloading the mobile device management application. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_WIFI_SSID" EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_USER_CERTIFICATE public static final String EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_USER_CERTIFICATE The user certificate of the wifi network in EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SSID. This should be an X.509 certificate and private key Base64 encoded DER format, ie. PEM representation of a certificate and key without header, footer and line breaks. More information This is only used if the EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SECURITY_TYPE is EAP. Use in an NFC record with MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC that starts device owner provisioning via an NFC bump. It can also be used for QR code provisioning. Constant Value: "android.app.extra.PROVISIONING_WIFI_USER_CERTIFICATE" FLAG_EVICT_CREDENTIAL_ENCRYPTION_KEY public static final int FLAG_EVICT_CREDENTIAL_ENCRYPTION_KEY Flag for lockNow(int): also evict the user's credential encryption key from the keyring. The user's credential will need to be entered again in order to derive the credential encryption key that will be stored back in the keyring for future use. This flag can only be used by a profile owner when locking a managed profile when getStorageEncryptionStatus() returns ENCRYPTION_STATUS_ACTIVE_PER_USER. In order to secure user data, the user will be stopped and restarted so apps should wait until they are next run to perform further actions. Constant Value: 1 (0x00000001) FLAG_MANAGED_CAN_ACCESS_PARENT public static final int FLAG_MANAGED_CAN_ACCESS_PARENT Flag used by addCrossProfileIntentFilter(ComponentName, IntentFilter, int) to allow activities in the managed profile to access intents sent from the parent profile. That is, when an app in the parent profile calls Activity#startActivity(Intent), the intent can be resolved by a matching activity in the managed profile. Constant Value: 2 (0x00000002) FLAG_PARENT_CAN_ACCESS_MANAGED public static final int FLAG_PARENT_CAN_ACCESS_MANAGED Flag used by addCrossProfileIntentFilter(ComponentName, IntentFilter, int) to allow activities in the parent profile to access intents sent from the managed profile. That is, when an app in the managed profile calls Activity#startActivity(Intent), the intent can be resolved by a matching activity in the parent profile. Constant Value: 1 (0x00000001) ID_TYPE_BASE_INFO public static final int ID_TYPE_BASE_INFO Specifies that the device should attest its manufacturer details. For use with generateKeyPair(ComponentName, String, KeyGenParameterSpec, int). Constant Value: 1 (0x00000001) ID_TYPE_IMEI public static final int ID_TYPE_IMEI Specifies that the device should attest its IMEI. For use with generateKeyPair(ComponentName, String, KeyGenParameterSpec, int). Constant Value: 4 (0x00000004) ID_TYPE_INDIVIDUAL_ATTESTATION public static final int ID_TYPE_INDIVIDUAL_ATTESTATION Specifies that the device should attest using an individual attestation certificate. For use with generateKeyPair(ComponentName, String, KeyGenParameterSpec, int). Constant Value: 16 (0x00000010) ID_TYPE_MEID public static final int ID_TYPE_MEID Specifies that the device should attest its MEID. For use with generateKeyPair(ComponentName, String, KeyGenParameterSpec, int). Constant Value: 8 (0x00000008) ID_TYPE_SERIAL public static final int ID_TYPE_SERIAL Specifies that the device should attest its serial number. For use with generateKeyPair(ComponentName, String, KeyGenParameterSpec, int). Constant Value: 2 (0x00000002) INSTALLKEY_REQUEST_CREDENTIALS_ACCESS public static final int INSTALLKEY_REQUEST_CREDENTIALS_ACCESS Specifies that the calling app should be granted access to the installed credentials immediately. Otherwise, access to the credentials will be gated by user approval. For use with installKeyPair(android.content.ComponentName, java.security.PrivateKey, java.security.cert.Certificate[], java.lang.String, int) Constant Value: 1 (0x00000001) INSTALLKEY_SET_USER_SELECTABLE public static final int INSTALLKEY_SET_USER_SELECTABLE Specifies that a user can select the key via the Certificate Selection prompt. If this flag is not set when calling installKeyPair(ComponentName, PrivateKey, Certificate, String), the key can only be granted access by implementing DeviceAdminReceiver.onChoosePrivateKeyAlias(Context, Intent, int, Uri, String). For use with installKeyPair(android.content.ComponentName, java.security.PrivateKey, java.security.cert.Certificate[], java.lang.String, int) Constant Value: 2 (0x00000002) KEYGUARD_DISABLE_BIOMETRICS public static final int KEYGUARD_DISABLE_BIOMETRICS Disable all biometric authentication on keyguard secure screens (e.g. PIN/Pattern/Password). Constant Value: 416 (0x000001a0) KEYGUARD_DISABLE_FACE public static final int KEYGUARD_DISABLE_FACE Disable face authentication on keyguard secure screens (e.g. PIN/Pattern/Password). Constant Value: 128 (0x00000080) KEYGUARD_DISABLE_FEATURES_ALL public static final int KEYGUARD_DISABLE_FEATURES_ALL Disable all current and future keyguard customizations. Constant Value: 2147483647 (0x7fffffff) KEYGUARD_DISABLE_FEATURES_NONE public static final int KEYGUARD_DISABLE_FEATURES_NONE Widgets are enabled in keyguard Constant Value: 0 (0x00000000) KEYGUARD_DISABLE_FINGERPRINT public static final int KEYGUARD_DISABLE_FINGERPRINT Disable fingerprint authentication on keyguard secure screens (e.g. PIN/Pattern/Password). Constant Value: 32 (0x00000020) KEYGUARD_DISABLE_IRIS public static final int KEYGUARD_DISABLE_IRIS Disable iris authentication on keyguard secure screens (e.g. PIN/Pattern/Password). Constant Value: 256 (0x00000100) KEYGUARD_DISABLE_REMOTE_INPUT Deprecated in API level Tiramisu public static final int KEYGUARD_DISABLE_REMOTE_INPUT This constant was deprecated in API level Tiramisu. This flag was added in version Build.VERSION_CODES.N, but it never had any effect. Disable text entry into notifications on secure keyguard screens (e.g. PIN/Pattern/Password). Constant Value: 64 (0x00000040) KEYGUARD_DISABLE_SECURE_CAMERA public static final int KEYGUARD_DISABLE_SECURE_CAMERA Disable the camera on secure keyguard screens (e.g. PIN/Pattern/Password) Constant Value: 2 (0x00000002) KEYGUARD_DISABLE_SECURE_NOTIFICATIONS public static final int KEYGUARD_DISABLE_SECURE_NOTIFICATIONS Disable showing all notifications on secure keyguard screens (e.g. PIN/Pattern/Password) Constant Value: 4 (0x00000004) KEYGUARD_DISABLE_TRUST_AGENTS public static final int KEYGUARD_DISABLE_TRUST_AGENTS Disable trust agents on secure keyguard screens (e.g. PIN/Pattern/Password). By setting this flag alone, all trust agents are disabled. If the admin then wants to allowlist specific features of some trust agent, setTrustAgentConfiguration(ComponentName, ComponentName, PersistableBundle) can be used in conjuction to set trust-agent-specific configurations. Constant Value: 16 (0x00000010) KEYGUARD_DISABLE_UNREDACTED_NOTIFICATIONS public static final int KEYGUARD_DISABLE_UNREDACTED_NOTIFICATIONS Only allow redacted notifications on secure keyguard screens (e.g. PIN/Pattern/Password) Constant Value: 8 (0x00000008) KEYGUARD_DISABLE_WIDGETS_ALL public static final int KEYGUARD_DISABLE_WIDGETS_ALL Disable all keyguard widgets. Has no effect starting from Build.VERSION_CODES.LOLLIPOP since keyguard widget is only supported on Android versions lower than 5.0. Constant Value: 1 (0x00000001) LEAVE_ALL_SYSTEM_APPS_ENABLED public static final int LEAVE_ALL_SYSTEM_APPS_ENABLED Flag used by createAndManageUser(ComponentName, String, ComponentName, PersistableBundle, int) to specify that the newly created user should skip the disabling of system apps during provisioning. Constant Value: 16 (0x00000010) LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_BLOCK_ACTIVITY_START_IN_TASK public static final int LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_BLOCK_ACTIVITY_START_IN_TASK Enable blocking of non-allowlisted activities from being started into a locked task. Constant Value: 64 (0x00000040) LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_GLOBAL_ACTIONS public static final int LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_GLOBAL_ACTIONS Enable the global actions dialog during LockTask mode. This is the dialog that shows up when the user long-presses the power button, for example. Note that the user may not be able to power off the device if this flag is not set. This flag is enabled by default until setLockTaskFeatures(android.content.ComponentName, int) is called for the first time. Constant Value: 16 (0x00000010) LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_HOME public static final int LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_HOME Enable the Home button during LockTask mode. Note that if a custom launcher is used, it has to be registered as the default launcher with addPersistentPreferredActivity(android.content.ComponentName, android.content.IntentFilter, android.content.ComponentName), and its package needs to be allowlisted for LockTask with setLockTaskPackages(android.content.ComponentName, java.lang.String[]). Constant Value: 4 (0x00000004) LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_KEYGUARD public static final int LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_KEYGUARD Enable the keyguard during LockTask mode. Note that if the keyguard is already disabled with setKeyguardDisabled(android.content.ComponentName, boolean), setting this flag will have no effect. If this flag is not set, the keyguard will not be shown even if the user has a lock screen credential. Constant Value: 32 (0x00000020) LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_NONE public static final int LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_NONE Disable all configurable SystemUI features during LockTask mode. This includes, - system info area in the status bar (connectivity icons, clock, etc.) - notifications (including alerts, icons, and the notification shade) - Home button - Recents button and UI - global actions menu (i.e. power button menu) - keyguard Constant Value: 0 (0x00000000) LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_NOTIFICATIONS public static final int LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_NOTIFICATIONS Enable notifications during LockTask mode. This includes notification icons on the status bar, heads-up notifications, and the expandable notification shade. Note that the Quick Settings panel remains disabled. This feature flag can only be used in combination with LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_HOME. setLockTaskFeatures(android.content.ComponentName, int) throws an IllegalArgumentException if this feature flag is defined without LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_HOME. Constant Value: 2 (0x00000002) LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_OVERVIEW public static final int LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_OVERVIEW Enable the Overview button and the Overview screen during LockTask mode. This feature flag can only be used in combination with LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_HOME, and setLockTaskFeatures(android.content.ComponentName, int) will throw an IllegalArgumentException if this feature flag is defined without LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_HOME. Constant Value: 8 (0x00000008) LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_SYSTEM_INFO public static final int LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_SYSTEM_INFO Enable the system info area in the status bar during LockTask mode. The system info area usually occupies the right side of the status bar (although this can differ across OEMs). It includes all system information indicators, such as date and time, connectivity, battery, vibration mode, etc. Constant Value: 1 (0x00000001) MAKE_USER_EPHEMERAL public static final int MAKE_USER_EPHEMERAL Flag used by createAndManageUser(ComponentName, String, ComponentName, PersistableBundle, int) to specify that the user should be created ephemeral. Ephemeral users will be removed after switching to another user or rebooting the device. Constant Value: 2 (0x00000002) MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC public static final String MIME_TYPE_PROVISIONING_NFC This MIME type is used for starting the device owner provisioning. During device owner provisioning a device admin app is set as the owner of the device. A device owner has full control over the device. The device owner can not be modified by the user and the only way of resetting the device is if the device owner app calls a factory reset. A typical use case would be a device that is owned by a company, but used by either an employee or client. The NFC message must be sent to an unprovisioned device. The NFC record must contain a serialized Properties object which contains the following properties: EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_NAME EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_DOWNLOAD_LOCATION, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_DOWNLOAD_COOKIE_HEADER, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_CHECKSUM, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_LOCAL_TIME(convert to String), optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_TIME_ZONE, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_LOCALE, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SSID, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_HIDDEN(convert to String), optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_SECURITY_TYPE, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_PASSWORD, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_PROXY_HOST, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_PROXY_PORT(convert to String), optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_PROXY_BYPASS, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_PAC_URL, optional EXTRA_PROVISIONING_ADMIN_EXTRAS_BUNDLE, optional, supported from Build.VERSION_CODES.M EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_EAP_METHOD, optional, supported from Build.VERSION_CODES.Q EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_PHASE2_AUTH, optional, supported from Build.VERSION_CODES.Q EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_CA_CERTIFICATE, optional, supported from Build.VERSION_CODES.Q EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_USER_CERTIFICATE, optional, supported from Build.VERSION_CODES.Q EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_IDENTITY, optional, supported from Build.VERSION_CODES.Q EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_ANONYMOUS_IDENTITY, optional, supported from Build.VERSION_CODES.Q EXTRA_PROVISIONING_WIFI_DOMAIN, optional, supported from Build.VERSION_CODES.Q As of Build.VERSION_CODES.M, the properties should contain EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_COMPONENT_NAME instead of EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_NAME, (although specifying only EXTRA_PROVISIONING_DEVICE_ADMIN_PACKAGE_NAME is still supported). Constant Value: "application/com.android.managedprovisioning" NEARBY_STREAMING_DISABLED public static final int NEARBY_STREAMING_DISABLED Indicates that nearby streaming is disabled. Constant Value: 1 (0x00000001) NEARBY_STREAMING_ENABLED public static final int NEARBY_STREAMING_ENABLED Indicates that nearby streaming is enabled. Constant Value: 2 (0x00000002) NEARBY_STREAMING_NOT_CONTROLLED_BY_POLICY public static final int NEARBY_STREAMING_NOT_CONTROLLED_BY_POLICY Indicates that nearby streaming is not controlled by policy, which means nearby streaming is allowed. Constant Value: 0 (0x00000000) NEARBY_STREAMING_SAME_MANAGED_ACCOUNT_ONLY public static final int NEARBY_STREAMING_SAME_MANAGED_ACCOUNT_ONLY Indicates that nearby streaming is enabled only to devices offering a comparable level of security, with the same authenticated managed account. Constant Value: 3 (0x00000003) OPERATION_SAFETY_REASON_DRIVING_DISTRACTION public static final int OPERATION_SAFETY_REASON_DRIVING_DISTRACTION Indicates that a UnsafeStateException was thrown because the operation would distract the driver of the vehicle. Constant Value: 1 (0x00000001) PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_HIGH public static final int PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_HIGH Constant for getPasswordComplexity() and setRequiredPasswordComplexity(int). Define the high password complexity band as: - PIN with no repeating (4444) or ordered (1234, 4321, 2468) sequences, length at least 8 - alphabetic, length at least 6 - alphanumeric, length at least 6 When returned from getPasswordComplexity(), the constant represents the exact complexity band the password is in. When passed to {@link #setRequiredPasswordComplexity(int), it sets the minimum complexity band which the password must meet. Constant Value: 327680 (0x00050000) PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_LOW public static final int PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_LOW Constant for getPasswordComplexity() and setRequiredPasswordComplexity(int). Define the low password complexity band as: - pattern - PIN with repeating (4444) or ordered (1234, 4321, 2468) sequences When returned from getPasswordComplexity(), the constant represents the exact complexity band the password is in. When passed to {@link #setRequiredPasswordComplexity(int), it sets the minimum complexity band which the password must meet. Constant Value: 65536 (0x00010000) PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_MEDIUM public static final int PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_MEDIUM Constant for getPasswordComplexity() and setRequiredPasswordComplexity(int). Define the medium password complexity band as: - PIN with no repeating (4444) or ordered (1234, 4321, 2468) sequences, length at least 4 - alphabetic, length at least 4 - alphanumeric, length at least 4 When returned from getPasswordComplexity(), the constant represents the exact complexity band the password is in. When passed to {@link #setRequiredPasswordComplexity(int), it sets the minimum complexity band which the password must meet. Constant Value: 196608 (0x00030000) PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_NONE public static final int PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_NONE Constant for getPasswordComplexity() and setRequiredPasswordComplexity(int): no password. When returned from getPasswordComplexity(), the constant represents the exact complexity band the password is in. When passed to {@link #setRequiredPasswordComplexity(int), it sets the minimum complexity band which the password must meet. Constant Value: 0 (0x00000000) PASSWORD_QUALITY_ALPHABETIC public static final int PASSWORD_QUALITY_ALPHABETIC Constant for setPasswordQuality(ComponentName, int): the user must have entered a password containing at least alphabetic (or other symbol) characters. Note that quality constants are ordered so that higher values are more restrictive. Constant Value: 262144 (0x00040000) PASSWORD_QUALITY_ALPHANUMERIC public static final int PASSWORD_QUALITY_ALPHANUMERIC Constant for setPasswordQuality(ComponentName, int): the user must have entered a password containing at least both> numeric and alphabetic (or other symbol) characters. Note that quality constants are ordered so that higher values are more restrictive. Constant Value: 327680 (0x00050000) PASSWORD_QUALITY_BIOMETRIC_WEAK public static final int PASSWORD_QUALITY_BIOMETRIC_WEAK Constant for setPasswordQuality(ComponentName, int): the policy allows for low-security biometric recognition technology. This implies technologies that can recognize the identity of an individual to about a 3 digit PIN (false detection is less than 1 in 1,000). Note that quality constants are ordered so that higher values are more restrictive. Constant Value: 32768 (0x00008000) PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX public static final int PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX Constant for setPasswordQuality(ComponentName, int): allows the admin to set precisely how many characters of various types the password should contain to satisfy the policy. The admin should set these requirements via setPasswordMinimumLetters(ComponentName, int), setPasswordMinimumNumeric(ComponentName, int), setPasswordMinimumSymbols(ComponentName, int), setPasswordMinimumUpperCase(ComponentName, int), setPasswordMinimumLowerCase(ComponentName, int), setPasswordMinimumNonLetter(ComponentName, int), and setPasswordMinimumLength(ComponentName, int). Note that quality constants are ordered so that higher values are more restrictive. Constant Value: 393216 (0x00060000) PASSWORD_QUALITY_NUMERIC public static final int PASSWORD_QUALITY_NUMERIC Constant for setPasswordQuality(ComponentName, int): the user must have entered a password containing at least numeric characters. Note that quality constants are ordered so that higher values are more restrictive. Constant Value: 131072 (0x00020000) PASSWORD_QUALITY_NUMERIC_COMPLEX public static final int PASSWORD_QUALITY_NUMERIC_COMPLEX Constant for setPasswordQuality(ComponentName, int): the user must have entered a password containing at least numeric characters with no repeating (4444) or ordered (1234, 4321, 2468) sequences. Note that quality constants are ordered so that higher values are more restrictive. Constant Value: 196608 (0x00030000) PASSWORD_QUALITY_SOMETHING public static final int PASSWORD_QUALITY_SOMETHING Constant for setPasswordQuality(ComponentName, int): the policy requires some kind of password or pattern, but doesn't care what it is. Note that quality constants are ordered so that higher values are more restrictive. Constant Value: 65536 (0x00010000) PASSWORD_QUALITY_UNSPECIFIED public static final int PASSWORD_QUALITY_UNSPECIFIED Constant for setPasswordQuality(ComponentName, int): the policy has no requirements for the password. Note that quality constants are ordered so that higher values are more restrictive. Constant Value: 0 (0x00000000) PERMISSION_GRANT_STATE_DEFAULT public static final int PERMISSION_GRANT_STATE_DEFAULT Runtime permission state: The user can manage the permission through the UI. Constant Value: 0 (0x00000000) PERMISSION_GRANT_STATE_DENIED public static final int PERMISSION_GRANT_STATE_DENIED Runtime permission state: The permission is denied to the app and the user cannot manage the permission through the UI. Constant Value: 2 (0x00000002) PERMISSION_GRANT_STATE_GRANTED public static final int PERMISSION_GRANT_STATE_GRANTED Runtime permission state: The permission is granted to the app and the user cannot manage the permission through the UI. Constant Value: 1 (0x00000001) PERMISSION_POLICY_AUTO_DENY public static final int PERMISSION_POLICY_AUTO_DENY Permission policy to always deny new permission requests for runtime permissions. Already granted or denied permissions are not affected by this. Constant Value: 2 (0x00000002) PERMISSION_POLICY_AUTO_GRANT public static final int PERMISSION_POLICY_AUTO_GRANT Permission policy to always grant new permission requests for runtime permissions. Already granted or denied permissions are not affected by this. Constant Value: 1 (0x00000001) PERMISSION_POLICY_PROMPT public static final int PERMISSION_POLICY_PROMPT Permission policy to prompt user for new permission requests for runtime permissions. Already granted or denied permissions are not affected by this. Constant Value: 0 (0x00000000) PERSONAL_APPS_NOT_SUSPENDED public static final int PERSONAL_APPS_NOT_SUSPENDED Return value for getPersonalAppsSuspendedReasons(ComponentName) when personal apps are not suspended. Constant Value: 0 (0x00000000) PERSONAL_APPS_SUSPENDED_EXPLICITLY public static final int PERSONAL_APPS_SUSPENDED_EXPLICITLY Flag for getPersonalAppsSuspendedReasons(ComponentName) return value. Set when personal apps are suspended by an admin explicitly via setPersonalAppsSuspended(ComponentName, boolean). Constant Value: 1 (0x00000001) PERSONAL_APPS_SUSPENDED_PROFILE_TIMEOUT public static final int PERSONAL_APPS_SUSPENDED_PROFILE_TIMEOUT Flag for getPersonalAppsSuspendedReasons(ComponentName) return value. Set when personal apps are suspended by framework because managed profile was off for longer than allowed by policy. Constant Value: 2 (0x00000002) POLICY_DISABLE_CAMERA public static final String POLICY_DISABLE_CAMERA Constant to indicate the feature of disabling the camera. Used as argument to createAdminSupportIntent(java.lang.String). Constant Value: "policy_disable_camera" POLICY_DISABLE_SCREEN_CAPTURE public static final String POLICY_DISABLE_SCREEN_CAPTURE Constant to indicate the feature of disabling screen captures. Used as argument to createAdminSupportIntent(java.lang.String). Constant Value: "policy_disable_screen_capture" PRIVATE_DNS_MODE_OFF public static final int PRIVATE_DNS_MODE_OFF Specifies that Private DNS was turned off completely. Constant Value: 1 (0x00000001) PRIVATE_DNS_MODE_OPPORTUNISTIC public static final int PRIVATE_DNS_MODE_OPPORTUNISTIC Specifies that the device owner requested opportunistic DNS over TLS Constant Value: 2 (0x00000002) PRIVATE_DNS_MODE_PROVIDER_HOSTNAME public static final int PRIVATE_DNS_MODE_PROVIDER_HOSTNAME Specifies that the device owner configured a specific host to use for Private DNS. Constant Value: 3 (0x00000003) PRIVATE_DNS_MODE_UNKNOWN public static final int PRIVATE_DNS_MODE_UNKNOWN Specifies that the Private DNS setting is in an unknown state. Constant Value: 0 (0x00000000) PRIVATE_DNS_SET_ERROR_FAILURE_SETTING public static final int PRIVATE_DNS_SET_ERROR_FAILURE_SETTING General failure to set the Private DNS mode, not due to one of the reasons listed above. Constant Value: 2 (0x00000002) PRIVATE_DNS_SET_ERROR_HOST_NOT_SERVING public static final int PRIVATE_DNS_SET_ERROR_HOST_NOT_SERVING If the privateDnsHost provided was of a valid hostname but that host was found to not support DNS-over-TLS. Constant Value: 1 (0x00000001) PRIVATE_DNS_SET_NO_ERROR public static final int PRIVATE_DNS_SET_NO_ERROR The selected mode has been set successfully. If the mode is PRIVATE_DNS_MODE_PROVIDER_HOSTNAME then it implies the supplied host is valid and reachable. Constant Value: 0 (0x00000000) PROVISIONING_MODE_FULLY_MANAGED_DEVICE public static final int PROVISIONING_MODE_FULLY_MANAGED_DEVICE The provisioning mode for fully managed device. Constant Value: 1 (0x00000001) PROVISIONING_MODE_MANAGED_PROFILE public static final int PROVISIONING_MODE_MANAGED_PROFILE The provisioning mode for managed profile. Constant Value: 2 (0x00000002) PROVISIONING_MODE_MANAGED_PROFILE_ON_PERSONAL_DEVICE public static final int PROVISIONING_MODE_MANAGED_PROFILE_ON_PERSONAL_DEVICE The provisioning mode for a managed profile on a personal device. This mode is only available when the provisioning initiator has explicitly instructed the provisioning flow to support managed profile on a personal device provisioning. In that case, PROVISIONING_MODE_MANAGED_PROFILE corresponds to an organization-owned managed profile, whereas this constant corresponds to a personally-owned managed profile. Constant Value: 3 (0x00000003) RESET_PASSWORD_DO_NOT_ASK_CREDENTIALS_ON_BOOT public static final int RESET_PASSWORD_DO_NOT_ASK_CREDENTIALS_ON_BOOT Flag for resetPasswordWithToken(ComponentName, String, byte[], int) and resetPassword(String, int): don't ask for user credentials on device boot. If the flag is set, the device can be booted without asking for user password. The absence of this flag does not change the current boot requirements. This flag can be set by the device owner only. If the app is not the device owner, the flag is ignored. Once the flag is set, it cannot be reverted back without resetting the device to factory defaults. Constant Value: 2 (0x00000002) RESET_PASSWORD_REQUIRE_ENTRY public static final int RESET_PASSWORD_REQUIRE_ENTRY Flag for resetPasswordWithToken(ComponentName, String, byte[], int) and resetPassword(String, int): don't allow other admins to change the password again until the user has entered it. Constant Value: 1 (0x00000001) SKIP_SETUP_WIZARD public static final int SKIP_SETUP_WIZARD Flag used by createAndManageUser(ComponentName, String, ComponentName, PersistableBundle, int) to skip setup wizard after creating a new user. Constant Value: 1 (0x00000001) WIPE_EUICC public static final int WIPE_EUICC Flag for wipeData(int): also erase the device's eUICC data. Constant Value: 4 (0x00000004) WIPE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE public static final int WIPE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE Flag for wipeData(int): also erase the device's external storage (such as SD cards). Constant Value: 1 (0x00000001) WIPE_RESET_PROTECTION_DATA public static final int WIPE_RESET_PROTECTION_DATA Flag for wipeData(int): also erase the factory reset protection data. This flag may only be set by device owner admins; if it is set by other admins a SecurityException will be thrown. Constant Value: 2 (0x00000002) WIPE_SILENTLY public static final int WIPE_SILENTLY Flag for wipeData(int): won't show reason for wiping to the user. Constant Value: 8 (0x00000008) Public methods acknowledgeDeviceCompliant public void acknowledgeDeviceCompliant () Called by a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to acknowledge that the device is compliant and the user can turn the profile off if needed according to the maximum time off policy. This method should be called when the device is deemed compliant after getting DeviceAdminReceiver#onComplianceAcknowledgementRequired(Context, Intent) callback in case it is overridden. Before this method is called the user is still free to turn the profile off, but the timer won't be reset, so personal apps will be suspended sooner. DPCs only need acknowledging device compliance if they override DeviceAdminReceiver#onComplianceAcknowledgementRequired(Context, Intent), otherwise compliance is acknowledged automatically. |Throws| |if the user isn't unlocked| addCrossProfileIntentFilter public void addCrossProfileIntentFilter (ComponentName admin, IntentFilter filter, int flags) Called by the profile owner of a managed profile so that some intents sent in the managed profile can also be resolved in the parent, or vice versa. Only activity intents are supported. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | addCrossProfileWidgetProvider public boolean addCrossProfileWidgetProvider (ComponentName admin, String packageName) Called by the profile owner of a managed profile to enable widget providers from a given package to be available in the parent profile. As a result the user will be able to add widgets from the allowlisted package running under the profile to a widget host which runs under the parent profile, for example the home screen. Note that a package may have zero or more provider components, where each component provides a different widget type. Note: By default no widget provider package is allowlisted. |Parameters| |Returns| |Whether the package was added.| |Throws| |if | addOverrideApn public int addOverrideApn (ComponentName admin, ApnSetting apnSetting) Called by device owner to add an override APN. This method may returns -1 if apnSetting conflicts with an existing override APN. Update the existing conflicted APN with updateOverrideApn(android.content.ComponentName, int, android.telephony.data.ApnSetting) instead of adding a new entry. Two override APNs are considered to conflict when all the following APIs return the same values on both override APNs: ApnSetting#getOperatorNumeric() ApnSetting#getApnName() ApnSetting#getProxyAddressAsString() ApnSetting#getProxyPort() ApnSetting#getMmsProxyAddressAsString() ApnSetting#getMmsProxyPort() ApnSetting#getMmsc() ApnSetting#isEnabled() ApnSetting#getMvnoType() ApnSetting#getProtocol() ApnSetting#getRoamingProtocol() |Parameters| |Returns| |The | |Throws| |if | addPersistentPreferredActivity public void addPersistentPreferredActivity (ComponentName admin, IntentFilter filter, ComponentName activity) Called by a profile owner or device owner to set a default activity that the system selects to handle intents that match the given IntentFilter. This activity will remain the default intent handler even if the set of potential event handlers for the intent filter changes and if the intent preferences are reset. Note that the caller should still declare the activity in the manifest, the API just sets the activity to be the default one to handle the given intent filter. The default disambiguation mechanism takes over if the activity is not installed (anymore). When the activity is (re)installed, it is automatically reset as default intent handler for the filter. The calling device admin must be a profile owner or device owner. If it is not, a security exception will be thrown. NOTE: Performs disk I/O and shouldn't be called on the main thread. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | addUserRestriction public void addUserRestriction (ComponentName admin, String key) Called by a profile or device owner to set a user restriction specified by the key. The calling device admin must be a profile or device owner; if it is not, a security exception will be thrown. The profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile may invoke this method on the DevicePolicyManager instance it obtained from getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName), for enforcing device-wide restrictions. See the constants in UserManager for the list of restrictions that can be enforced device-wide. |Throws| |if | bindDeviceAdminServiceAsUser public boolean bindDeviceAdminServiceAsUser (ComponentName admin, Intent serviceIntent, ServiceConnection conn, int flags, UserHandle targetUser) Called by a device owner to bind to a service from a secondary managed user or vice versa. See getBindDeviceAdminTargetUsers(ComponentName) for the pre-requirements of a device owner to bind to services of another managed user. The service must be protected by Manifest.permission.BIND_DEVICE_ADMIN. Note that the Context used to obtain this DevicePolicyManager instance via Context#getSystemService(Class) will be used to bind to the Service. Note: This method used to be available for communication between device owner and profile owner. However, since Android 11, this combination is not possible. This method is now only useful for communication between device owner and managed secondary users. |Parameters| |Returns| |If you have successfully bound to the service, | canAdminGrantSensorsPermissions public boolean canAdminGrantSensorsPermissions () Returns true if the caller is running on a device where the admin can grant permissions related to device sensors. This is a signal that the device is a fully-managed device where personal usage is discouraged. The list of permissions is listed in setPermissionGrantState(android.content.ComponentName, java.lang.String, java.lang.String, int). May be called by any app. |Returns| |true if the app can grant device sensors-related permissions, false otherwise.| canUsbDataSignalingBeDisabled public boolean canUsbDataSignalingBeDisabled () Returns whether enabling or disabling USB data signaling is supported on the device. |Returns| clearApplicationUserData public void clearApplicationUserData (ComponentName admin, String packageName, Executor executor, DevicePolicyManager.OnClearApplicationUserDataListener listener) Called by the device owner or profile owner to clear application user data of a given package. The behaviour of this is equivalent to the target application calling ActivityManager.clearApplicationUserData(). Note: an application can store data outside of its application data, e.g. external storage or user dictionary. This data will not be wiped by calling this API. |Parameters| |Throws| |if the caller is not the device owner/profile owner.| clearCrossProfileIntentFilters public void clearCrossProfileIntentFilters (ComponentName admin) Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to remove the cross-profile intent filters that go from the managed profile to the parent, or from the parent to the managed profile. Only removes those that have been set by the profile owner. Note: A list of default cross profile intent filters are set up by the system when the profile is created, some of them ensure the proper functioning of the profile, while others enable sharing of data from the parent to the managed profile for user convenience. These default intent filters are not cleared when this API is called. If the default cross profile data sharing is not desired, they can be disabled with UserManager#DISALLOW_SHARE_INTO_MANAGED_PROFILE. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | clearDeviceOwnerApp public void clearDeviceOwnerApp (String packageName) This method was deprecated in API level 26. This method is expected to be used for testing purposes only. The device owner will lose control of the device and its data after calling it. In order to protect any sensitive data that remains on the device, it is advised that the device owner factory resets the device instead of calling this method. See wipeData(int). Clears the current device owner. The caller must be the device owner. This function should be used cautiously as once it is called it cannot be undone. The device owner can only be set as a part of device setup, before it completes. While some policies previously set by the device owner will be cleared by this method, it is a best-effort process and some other policies will still remain in place after the device owner is cleared. |Parameters| |Throws| |if the caller is not in | clearPackagePersistentPreferredActivities public void clearPackagePersistentPreferredActivities (ComponentName admin, String packageName) Called by a profile owner or device owner to remove all persistent intent handler preferences associated with the given package that were set by addPersistentPreferredActivity(ComponentName, IntentFilter, ComponentName). The calling device admin must be a profile owner. If it is not, a security exception will be thrown. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | clearProfileOwner public void clearProfileOwner (ComponentName admin) This method was deprecated in API level 26. This method is expected to be used for testing purposes only. The profile owner will lose control of the user and its data after calling it. In order to protect any sensitive data that remains on this user, it is advised that the profile owner deletes it instead of calling this method. See wipeData(int). Clears the active profile owner. The caller must be the profile owner of this user, otherwise a SecurityException will be thrown. This method is not available to managed profile owners. While some policies previously set by the profile owner will be cleared by this method, it is a best-effort process and some other policies will still remain in place after the profile owner is cleared. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | clearResetPasswordToken public boolean clearResetPasswordToken (ComponentName admin) Called by a profile or device owner to revoke the current password reset token. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, this method has no effect - the reset token should not have been set in the first place - and false is returned. Requires the PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature which can be detected using PackageManager.hasSystemFeature(String). |Parameters| |Returns| |true if the operation is successful, false otherwise.| |Throws| |if admin is not a device or profile owner.| clearUserRestriction public void clearUserRestriction (ComponentName admin, String key) Called by a profile or device owner to clear a user restriction specified by the key. The calling device admin must be a profile or device owner; if it is not, a security exception will be thrown. The profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile may invoke this method on the DevicePolicyManager instance it obtained from getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName), for clearing device-wide restrictions. See the constants in UserManager for the list of restrictions. |Throws| |if | createAdminSupportIntent public Intent createAdminSupportIntent (String restriction) Called by any app to display a support dialog when a feature was disabled by an admin. This returns an intent that can be used with Context#startActivity(Intent) to display the dialog. It will tell the user that the feature indicated by restriction was disabled by an admin, and include a link for more information. The default content of the dialog can be changed by the restricting admin via setShortSupportMessage(android.content.ComponentName, java.lang.CharSequence). If the restriction is not set (i.e. the feature is available), then the return value will be null. |Parameters| |Returns| |Intent An intent to be used to start the dialog-activity if the restriction is set by an admin, or null if the restriction does not exist or no admin set it.| createAndManageUser public UserHandle createAndManageUser (ComponentName admin, String name, ComponentName profileOwner, PersistableBundle adminExtras, int flags) Called by a device owner to create a user with the specified name and a given component of the calling package as profile owner. The UserHandle returned by this method should not be persisted as user handles are recycled as users are removed and created. If you need to persist an identifier for this user, use UserManager#getSerialNumberForUser. The new user will not be started in the background. admin is the DeviceAdminReceiver which is the device owner. profileOwner is also a DeviceAdminReceiver in the same package as admin, and will become the profile owner and will be registered as an active admin on the new user. The profile owner package will be installed on the new user. If the adminExtras are not null, they will be stored on the device until the user is started for the first time. Then the extras will be passed to the admin when onEnable is called. From Build.VERSION_CODES.P onwards, if targeting Build.VERSION_CODES.P, throws UserOperationException instead of returning null on failure. |Parameters| |Returns| |the | |Throws| |if | |if the user could not be created and the calling app is targeting | See also: enableSystemApp public int enableSystemApp (ComponentName admin, Intent intent) Re-enable system apps by intent that were disabled by default when the user was initialized. This function can be called by a device owner, profile owner, or by a delegate given the DELEGATION_ENABLE_SYSTEM_APP scope via setDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String, List. |Parameters| |Returns| |int The number of activities that matched the intent and were installed.| |Throws| |if | enableSystemApp public void enableSystemApp (ComponentName admin, String packageName) Re-enable a system app that was disabled by default when the user was initialized. This function can be called by a device owner, profile owner, or by a delegate given the DELEGATION_ENABLE_SYSTEM_APP scope via setDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String, List. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | generateKeyPair public AttestedKeyPair generateKeyPair (ComponentName admin, String algorithm, KeyGenParameterSpec keySpec, int idAttestationFlags) This API can be called by the following to generate a new private/public key pair: - Device owner - Profile owner - Delegated certificate installer - Credential management app installKeyPair(ComponentName, PrivateKey, Certificate, String). From Android Build.VERSION_CODES.S, the credential management app can call this API. If called by the credential management app, the componentName must be null. Note, there can only be a credential management app on an unmanaged device. Because this method might take several seconds to complete, it should only be called from a worker thread. This method returns null when called from the main thread. This method is not thread-safe, calling it from multiple threads at the same time will result in undefined behavior. If the calling thread is interrupted while the invocation is in-flight, it will eventually terminate and return null. Note: If the provided alias is of an existing alias, all former grants that apps have been given to access the key and certificates associated with this alias will be revoked. Attestation: to enable attestation, set an attestation challenge in keySpec via KeyGenParameterSpec.Builder#setAttestationChallenge. By specifying flags to the idAttestationFlags parameter, it is possible to request the device's unique identity to be included in the attestation record. Specific identifiers can be included in the attestation record, and an individual attestation certificate can be used to sign the attestation record. To find out if the device supports these features, refer to isDeviceIdAttestationSupported() and isUniqueDeviceAttestationSupported(). Device owner, profile owner, their delegated certificate installer and the credential management app can use ID_TYPE_BASE_INFO to request inclusion of the general device information including manufacturer, model, brand, device and product in the attestation record. Only device owner, profile owner on an organization-owned device and their delegated certificate installers can use ID_TYPE_SERIAL, ID_TYPE_IMEI and ID_TYPE_MEID to request unique device identifiers to be attested (the serial number, IMEI and MEID correspondingly), if supported by the device (see isDeviceIdAttestationSupported()). Additionally, device owner, profile owner on an organization-owned device and their delegated certificate installers can also request the attestation record to be signed using an individual attestation certificate by specifying the ID_TYPE_INDIVIDUAL_ATTESTATION flag (if supported by the device, see isUniqueDeviceAttestationSupported()). If any of ID_TYPE_SERIAL, ID_TYPE_IMEI and ID_TYPE_MEID is set, it is implicitly assumed that ID_TYPE_BASE_INFO is also set. Attestation using ID_TYPE_INDIVIDUAL_ATTESTATION can only be requested if key generation is done in StrongBox. |Parameters| If any flag is specified, then an attestation challenge must be included in the |Returns| |A non-null | |Throws| |if | |in the following cases: | |if Device ID attestation or individual attestation was requested but the underlying hardware does not support it.| |if the use of StrongBox for key generation was specified in | getAccountTypesWithManagementDisabled public String[] getAccountTypesWithManagementDisabled () Gets the array of accounts for which account management is disabled by the profile owner or device owner. Account management can be disabled/enabled by calling setAccountManagementDisabled(ComponentName, String, boolean). This method may be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned from getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName). Note that only a profile owner on an organization-owned device can affect account types on the parent profile instance. |Returns| |a list of account types for which account management has been disabled. This value may be | getActiveAdmins public List<ComponentName> getActiveAdmins () Return a list of all currently active device administrators' component names. If there are no administrators null may be returned. |Returns| getAffiliationIds public Set<String> getAffiliationIds (ComponentName admin) Returns the set of affiliation ids previously set via setAffiliationIds(ComponentName, Set, or an empty set if none have been set. |Parameters| |Returns| |This value cannot be | getAlwaysOnVpnLockdownWhitelist public Set<String> getAlwaysOnVpnLockdownWhitelist (ComponentName admin) Called by device or profile owner to query the set of packages that are allowed to access the network directly when always-on VPN is in lockdown mode but not connected. Returns null when always-on VPN is not active or not in lockdown mode. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | getAlwaysOnVpnPackage public String getAlwaysOnVpnPackage (ComponentName admin) Called by a device or profile owner to read the name of the package administering an always-on VPN connection for the current user. If there is no such package, or the always-on VPN is provided by the system instead of by an application, null will be returned. |Parameters| |Returns| |Package name of VPN controller responsible for always-on VPN, or | |Throws| |if | getApplicationRestrictions public Bundle getApplicationRestrictions (ComponentName admin, String packageName) Retrieves the application restrictions for a given target application running in the calling user. The caller must be a profile or device owner on that user, or the package allowed to manage application restrictions via setDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String, List with the DELEGATION_APP_RESTRICTIONS scope; otherwise a security exception will be thrown. NOTE: The method performs disk I/O and shouldn't be called on the main thread This method may take several seconds to complete, so it should only be called from a worker thread. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | getApplicationRestrictionsManagingPackage public String getApplicationRestrictionsManagingPackage (ComponentName admin) This method was deprecated in API level 26. From Build.VERSION_CODES.O. Use getDelegatePackages(ComponentName, String) with the DELEGATION_APP_RESTRICTIONS scope instead. Called by a profile owner or device owner to retrieve the application restrictions managing package for the current user, or null if none is set. If there are multiple delegates this function will return one of them. |Parameters| |Returns| |The package name allowed to manage application restrictions on the current user, or | |Throws| |if | getAutoTimeEnabled public boolean getAutoTimeEnabled (ComponentName admin) |Parameters| |Returns| |true if auto time is enabled on the device.| |Throws| |if caller is not a device owner, a profile owner for the primary user, or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile.| getAutoTimeRequired public boolean getAutoTimeRequired () This method was deprecated in API level 30. From Build.VERSION_CODES.R. Use getAutoTimeEnabled(ComponentName) |Returns| |true if auto time is required.| getAutoTimeZoneEnabled public boolean getAutoTimeZoneEnabled (ComponentName admin) |Parameters| |Returns| |true if auto time zone is enabled on the device.| |Throws| |if caller is not a device owner, a profile owner for the primary user, or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile.| getBindDeviceAdminTargetUsers public List<UserHandle> getBindDeviceAdminTargetUsers (ComponentName admin) Returns the list of target users that the calling device owner or owner of secondary user can use when calling bindDeviceAdminServiceAsUser(ComponentName, Intent, ServiceConnection, int, UserHandle). A device owner can bind to a service from a secondary managed user and vice versa, provided that both users are affiliated. See setAffiliationIds(ComponentName, Set. |Parameters| |Returns| |This value cannot be | getBluetoothContactSharingDisabled public boolean getBluetoothContactSharingDisabled (ComponentName admin) Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to determine whether or not Bluetooth devices cannot access enterprise contacts. The calling device admin must be a profile owner. If it is not, a security exception will be thrown. This API works on managed profile only. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | getCameraDisabled public boolean getCameraDisabled (ComponentName admin) Determine whether or not the device's cameras have been disabled for this user, either by the calling admin, if specified, or all admins. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance, returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName), where the caller must be the profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile. |Parameters| |Returns| getCertInstallerPackage public String getCertInstallerPackage (ComponentName admin) This method was deprecated in API level 26. From Build.VERSION_CODES.O. Use getDelegatePackages(ComponentName, String) with the DELEGATION_CERT_INSTALL scope instead. Called by a profile owner or device owner to retrieve the certificate installer for the user, or null if none is set. If there are multiple delegates this function will return one of them. |Parameters| |Returns| |The package name of the current delegated certificate installer, or | |Throws| |if | getCrossProfileCalendarPackages public Set<String> getCrossProfileCalendarPackages (ComponentName admin) Gets a set of package names that are allowed to access cross-profile calendar APIs. Called by a profile owner of a managed profile. |Parameters| |Returns| |the set of names of packages that were previously allowed via | |Throws| |if | getCrossProfileCallerIdDisabled public boolean getCrossProfileCallerIdDisabled (ComponentName admin) Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to determine whether or not caller-Id information has been disabled. The calling device admin must be a profile owner. If it is not, a security exception will be thrown. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | getCrossProfileContactsSearchDisabled public boolean getCrossProfileContactsSearchDisabled (ComponentName admin) Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to determine whether or not contacts search has been disabled. The calling device admin must be a profile owner. If it is not, a security exception will be thrown. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | getCrossProfilePackages public Set<String> getCrossProfilePackages (ComponentName admin) Returns the set of package names that the admin has previously set as allowed to request user consent for cross-profile communication, via setCrossProfilePackages(android.content.ComponentName, java.util.Set). Assumes that the caller is a profile owner and is the given admin. Note that other apps not included in the returned set may be able to request user consent for cross-profile communication if they have been explicitly allowlisted by the OEM. |Parameters| |Returns| |the set of package names the admin has previously set as allowed to request user consent for cross-profile communication, via | getCrossProfileWidgetProviders public List<String> getCrossProfileWidgetProviders (ComponentName admin) Called by the profile owner of a managed profile to query providers from which packages are available in the parent profile. |Parameters| |Returns| |The allowlisted package list. This value cannot be | |Throws| |if | getCurrentFailedPasswordAttempts public int getCurrentFailedPasswordAttempts () Retrieve the number of times the user has failed at entering a password since that last successful password entry. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to retrieve the number of failed password attemts for the parent user. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_WATCH_LOGIN to be able to call this method; if it has not, a security exception will be thrown. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always empty and this method always returns 0. Requires the PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature which can be detected using PackageManager.hasSystemFeature(String). |Returns| |The number of times user has entered an incorrect password since the last correct password entry.| |Throws| |if the calling application does not own an active administrator that uses | getDelegatePackages public List<String> getDelegatePackages (ComponentName admin, String delegationScope) Called by a profile owner or device owner to retrieve a list of delegate packages that were granted a delegation scope. |Parameters| |Returns| |A list of package names of the current delegated packages for | |Throws| |if | getDelegatedScopes public List<String> getDelegatedScopes (ComponentName admin, String delegatedPackage) Called by a profile owner or device owner to retrieve a list of the scopes given to a delegate package. Other apps can use this method to retrieve their own delegated scopes by passing null for admin and their own package name as delegatedPackage. |Parameters| |Returns| |A list containing the scopes given to | |Throws| |if | getDeviceOwnerLockScreenInfo public CharSequence getDeviceOwnerLockScreenInfo () |Returns| |The device owner information. If it is not set returns | getEndUserSessionMessage public CharSequence getEndUserSessionMessage (ComponentName admin) Returns the user session end message. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | getEnrollmentSpecificId public String getEnrollmentSpecificId () Returns an enrollment-specific identifier of this device, which is guaranteed to be the same value for the same device, enrolled into the same organization by the same managing app. This identifier is high-entropy, useful for uniquely identifying individual devices within the same organisation. It is available both in a work profile and on a fully-managed device. The identifier would be consistent even if the work profile is removed and enrolled again (to the same organization), or the device is factory reset and re-enrolled. Can only be called by the Profile Owner or Device Owner, if the setOrganizationId(java.lang.String) was previously called. If setOrganizationId(java.lang.String) was not called, then the returned value will be an empty string. Note about access to device identifiers: a device owner, a profile owner of an organization-owned device or the delegated certificate installer (holding the DELEGATION_CERT_INSTALL delegation) on such a device can still obtain hardware identifiers by calling e.g. Build.getSerial(), in addition to using this method. However, a profile owner on a personal (non organization-owned) device, or the delegated certificate installer on such a device, cannot obtain hardware identifiers anymore and must switch to using this method. |Returns| |A stable, enrollment-specific identifier. This value cannot be | |Throws| |if the caller is not a profile owner or device owner.| getFactoryResetProtectionPolicy public FactoryResetProtectionPolicy getFactoryResetProtectionPolicy (ComponentName admin) Callable by device owner or profile owner of an organization-owned device, to retrieve the current factory reset protection (FRP) policy set previously by setFactoryResetProtectionPolicy(ComponentName, FactoryResetProtectionPolicy). This method can also be called by the FRP management agent on device or with the permission Manifest.permission.MASTER_CLEAR, in which case, it can pass null as the ComponentName. |Parameters| |Returns| |The current FRP policy object or | |Throws| |if | |if factory reset protection is not supported on the device.| getGlobalPrivateDnsHost public String getGlobalPrivateDnsHost (ComponentName admin) Returns the system-wide Private DNS host. |Parameters| |Returns| |The hostname used for Private DNS queries, null if none is set.| |Throws| |if the caller is not the device owner.| getGlobalPrivateDnsMode public int getGlobalPrivateDnsMode (ComponentName admin) Returns the system-wide Private DNS mode. |Parameters| |Returns| |one of | |Throws| |if the caller is not the device owner.| getInstalledCaCerts public List<byte[]> getInstalledCaCerts (ComponentName admin) Returns all CA certificates that are currently trusted, excluding system CA certificates. If a user has installed any certificates by other means than device policy these will be included too. |Parameters| |Returns| |a List of byte[] arrays, each encoding one user CA certificate. This value cannot be | |Throws| |if | getKeepUninstalledPackages public List<String> getKeepUninstalledPackages (ComponentName admin) Get the list of apps to keep around as APKs even if no user has currently installed it. This function can be called by a device owner or by a delegate given the DELEGATION_KEEP_UNINSTALLED_PACKAGES scope via setDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String, List. Please note that packages returned in this method are not automatically pre-cached. |Parameters| |Returns| |List of package names to keep cached. This value may be | getKeyPairGrants public Map<Integer, Set<String>> getKeyPairGrants (String alias) Called by a device or profile owner, or delegated certificate chooser (an app that has been delegated the DELEGATION_CERT_SELECTION privilege), to query which apps have access to a given KeyChain key. Key are granted on a per-UID basis, so if several apps share the same UID, granting access to one of them automatically grants it to others. This method returns a map containing one entry per grantee UID. Entries have UIDs as keys and sets of corresponding package names as values. In particular, grantee packages that don't share UID with other packages are represented by entries having singleton sets as values. |Parameters| |Returns| |apps that have access to a given key, arranged in a map from UID to sets of package names. This value cannot be | |Throws| |if the caller is not a device owner, a profile owner or delegated certificate chooser.| |if | getKeyguardDisabledFeatures public int getKeyguardDisabledFeatures (ComponentName admin) Determine whether or not features have been disabled in keyguard either by the calling admin, if specified, or all admins that set restrictions on this user and its participating profiles. Restrictions on profiles that have a separate challenge are not taken into account. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to retrieve restrictions on the parent profile. |Parameters| |Returns| |bitfield of flags. See | getLockTaskFeatures public int getLockTaskFeatures (ComponentName admin) Gets which system features are enabled for LockTask mode. |Parameters| |Returns| |bitfield of flags. See | |Throws| |if | getLockTaskPackages public String[] getLockTaskPackages (ComponentName admin) Returns the list of packages allowed to start the lock task mode. |Parameters| |Returns| |This value cannot be | |Throws| |if | getLongSupportMessage public CharSequence getLongSupportMessage (ComponentName admin) Called by a device admin to get the long support message. |Parameters| |Returns| |The message set by | |Throws| |if | getManagedProfileMaximumTimeOff public long getManagedProfileMaximumTimeOff (ComponentName admin) Called by a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to get maximum time the profile is allowed to be turned off. |Parameters| |Returns| |Maximum time the profile is allowed to be off in milliseconds or 0 if not limited.| getMaximumFailedPasswordsForWipe public int getMaximumFailedPasswordsForWipe (ComponentName admin) Retrieve the current maximum number of login attempts that are allowed before the device or profile is wiped, for a particular admin or all admins that set restrictions on this user and its participating profiles. Restrictions on profiles that have a separate challenge are not taken into account. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to retrieve the value for the parent profile. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always empty and this method returns a default value (0) indicating that the policy is not set. Requires the PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature which can be detected using PackageManager.hasSystemFeature(String). |Parameters| |Returns| getMaximumTimeToLock public long getMaximumTimeToLock (ComponentName admin) Retrieve the current maximum time to unlock for a particular admin or all admins that set restrictions on this user and its participating profiles. Restrictions on profiles that have a separate challenge are not taken into account. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to retrieve restrictions on the parent profile. |Parameters| |Returns| |time in milliseconds for the given admin or the minimum value (strictest) of all admins if admin is null. Returns 0 if there are no restrictions.| getMeteredDataDisabledPackages public List<String> getMeteredDataDisabledPackages (ComponentName admin) Called by a device or profile owner to retrieve the list of packages which are restricted by the admin from using metered data. |Parameters| |Returns| |the list of restricted package names. This value cannot be | |Throws| |if | getNearbyAppStreamingPolicy public int getNearbyAppStreamingPolicy () Returns the current runtime nearby app streaming policy set by the device or profile owner. |Returns| |Value is | getNearbyNotificationStreamingPolicy public int getNearbyNotificationStreamingPolicy () Returns the current runtime nearby notification streaming policy set by the device or profile owner. |Returns| |Value is | getOrganizationColor public int getOrganizationColor (ComponentName admin) This method was deprecated in API level 31. From Build.VERSION_CODES.R, the organization color is never used as the background color of the confirm credentials screen. Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to retrieve the color used for customization. This color is used as background color of the confirm credentials screen for that user. |Parameters| |Returns| |The 24bit (0xRRGGBB) representation of the color to be used.| |Throws| |if | getOrganizationName public CharSequence getOrganizationName (ComponentName admin) Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to retrieve the name of the organization under management. |Parameters| |Returns| |The organization name or | |Throws| |if | getOverrideApns public List<ApnSetting> getOverrideApns (ComponentName admin) Called by device owner to get all override APNs inserted by device owner. |Parameters| |Returns| |A list of override APNs inserted by device owner.| |Throws| |if | getParentProfileInstance public DevicePolicyManager getParentProfileInstance (ComponentName admin) Called by the profile owner of a managed profile to obtain a DevicePolicyManager whose calls act on the parent profile. The following methods are supported for the parent instance, all other methods will throw a SecurityException when called on the parent instance: getPasswordQuality(ComponentName) setPasswordQuality(ComponentName, int) getPasswordMinimumLength(ComponentName) setPasswordMinimumLength(ComponentName, int) getPasswordMinimumUpperCase(ComponentName) setPasswordMinimumUpperCase(ComponentName, int) getPasswordMinimumLowerCase(ComponentName) setPasswordMinimumLowerCase(ComponentName, int) getPasswordMinimumLetters(ComponentName) setPasswordMinimumLetters(ComponentName, int) getPasswordMinimumNumeric(ComponentName) setPasswordMinimumNumeric(ComponentName, int) getPasswordMinimumSymbols(ComponentName) setPasswordMinimumSymbols(ComponentName, int) getPasswordMinimumNonLetter(ComponentName) setPasswordMinimumNonLetter(ComponentName, int) getPasswordHistoryLength(ComponentName) setPasswordHistoryLength(ComponentName, int) getPasswordExpirationTimeout(ComponentName) setPasswordExpirationTimeout(ComponentName, long) getPasswordExpiration(ComponentName) getPasswordMaximumLength(int) isActivePasswordSufficient() getCurrentFailedPasswordAttempts() getMaximumFailedPasswordsForWipe(ComponentName) setMaximumFailedPasswordsForWipe(ComponentName, int) getMaximumTimeToLock(ComponentName) setMaximumTimeToLock(ComponentName, long) lockNow() getKeyguardDisabledFeatures(ComponentName) setKeyguardDisabledFeatures(ComponentName, int) getTrustAgentConfiguration(ComponentName, ComponentName) setTrustAgentConfiguration(ComponentName, ComponentName, PersistableBundle) getRequiredStrongAuthTimeout(ComponentName) setRequiredStrongAuthTimeout(ComponentName, long) getAccountTypesWithManagementDisabled() setRequiredPasswordComplexity(int) getRequiredPasswordComplexity() The following methods are supported for the parent instance but can only be called by the profile owner of a managed profile that was created during the device provisioning flow: getPasswordComplexity() setCameraDisabled(ComponentName, boolean) getCameraDisabled(ComponentName) setAccountManagementDisabled(android.content.ComponentName, java.lang.String, boolean) setPermittedInputMethods(ComponentName, List getPermittedInputMethods(ComponentName) The following methods can be called by the profile owner of a managed profile on an organization-owned device: |Parameters| |Returns| |a new instance of | |Throws| |if | getPasswordComplexity public int getPasswordComplexity () Returns how complex the current user's screen lock is. Note that when called from a profile which uses an unified challenge with its parent, the screen lock complexity of the parent will be returned. Apps need the permission#REQUEST_PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY permission to call this method. On Android Build.VERSION_CODES.S and above, the calling application does not need this permission if it is a device owner or a profile owner. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to retrieve restrictions on the parent profile. Requires Manifest.permission.REQUEST_PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY |Returns| |Value is | |Throws| |if the user is not unlocked.| |if the calling application does not have the permission | getPasswordExpiration public long getPasswordExpiration (ComponentName admin) Get the current password expiration time for a particular admin or all admins that set restrictions on this user and its participating profiles. Restrictions on profiles that have a separate challenge are not taken into account. If admin is null, then a composite of all expiration times is returned - which will be the minimum of all of them. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to retrieve the password expiration for the parent profile. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password expiration is always disabled and this method always returns 0. Requires the PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature which can be detected using PackageManager.hasSystemFeature(String). |Parameters| |Returns| |The password expiration time, in milliseconds since epoch.| getPasswordExpirationTimeout public long getPasswordExpirationTimeout (ComponentName admin) Get the password expiration timeout for the given admin. The expiration timeout is the recurring expiration timeout provided in the call to setPasswordExpirationTimeout(android.content.ComponentName, long) for the given admin or the aggregate of all participating policy administrators if admin is null. Admins that have set restrictions on profiles that have a separate challenge are not taken into account. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to retrieve restrictions on the parent profile. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password expiration is always disabled and this method always returns 0. Requires the PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature which can be detected using PackageManager.hasSystemFeature(String). |Parameters| |Returns| |The timeout for the given admin or the minimum of all timeouts| getPasswordHistoryLength public int getPasswordHistoryLength (ComponentName admin) Retrieve the current password history length for a particular admin or all admins that set restrictions on this user and its participating profiles. Restrictions on profiles that have a separate challenge are not taken into account. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to retrieve restrictions on the parent profile. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password history length is always 0. Requires the PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature which can be detected using PackageManager.hasSystemFeature(String). |Parameters| |Returns| |The length of the password history| getPasswordMaximumLength public int getPasswordMaximumLength (int quality) Return the maximum password length that the device supports for a particular password quality. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always empty and this method always returns 0. |Parameters| |Returns| |Returns the maximum length that the user can enter.| getPasswordMinimumLength public int getPasswordMinimumLength (ComponentName admin) This method was deprecated in API level 31. see setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int) for details. Retrieve the current minimum password length for a particular admin or all admins that set restrictions on this user and its participating profiles. Restrictions on profiles that have a separate challenge are not taken into account. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always treated as empty. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to retrieve restrictions on the parent profile. |Parameters| |Returns| getPasswordMinimumLetters public int getPasswordMinimumLetters (ComponentName admin) This method was deprecated in API level 31. see setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int) for details. Retrieve the current number of letters required in the password for a particular admin or all admins that set restrictions on this user and its participating profiles. Restrictions on profiles that have a separate challenge are not taken into account. This is the same value as set by setPasswordMinimumLetters(android.content.ComponentName, int) and only applies when the password quality is PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always treated as empty. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to retrieve restrictions on the parent profile. |Parameters| |Returns| |The minimum number of letters required in the password.| getPasswordMinimumLowerCase public int getPasswordMinimumLowerCase (ComponentName admin) This method was deprecated in API level 31. see setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int) for details. Retrieve the current number of lower case letters required in the password for a particular admin or all admins that set restrictions on this user and its participating profiles. Restrictions on profiles that have a separate challenge are not taken into account. This is the same value as set by setPasswordMinimumLowerCase(android.content.ComponentName, int) and only applies when the password quality is PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always treated as empty. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to retrieve restrictions on the parent profile. |Parameters| |Returns| |The minimum number of lower case letters required in the password.| getPasswordMinimumNonLetter public int getPasswordMinimumNonLetter (ComponentName admin) This method was deprecated in API level 31. see setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int) for details. Retrieve the current number of non-letter characters required in the password for a particular admin or all admins that set restrictions on this user and its participating profiles. Restrictions on profiles that have a separate challenge are not taken into account. This is the same value as set by setPasswordMinimumNonLetter(android.content.ComponentName, int) and only applies when the password quality is PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always treated as empty. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to retrieve restrictions on the parent profile. |Parameters| |Returns| |The minimum number of letters required in the password.| getPasswordMinimumNumeric public int getPasswordMinimumNumeric (ComponentName admin) This method was deprecated in API level 31. see setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int) for details. Retrieve the current number of numerical digits required in the password for a particular admin or all admins that set restrictions on this user and its participating profiles. Restrictions on profiles that have a separate challenge are not taken into account. This is the same value as set by setPasswordMinimumNumeric(android.content.ComponentName, int) and only applies when the password quality is PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always treated as empty. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to retrieve restrictions on the parent profile. |Parameters| |Returns| |The minimum number of numerical digits required in the password.| getPasswordMinimumSymbols public int getPasswordMinimumSymbols (ComponentName admin) This method was deprecated in API level 31. see setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int) for details. Retrieve the current number of symbols required in the password for a particular admin or all admins that set restrictions on this user and its participating profiles. Restrictions on profiles that have a separate challenge are not taken into account. This is the same value as set by setPasswordMinimumSymbols(android.content.ComponentName, int) and only applies when the password quality is PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always treated as empty. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to retrieve restrictions on the parent profile. |Parameters| |Returns| |The minimum number of symbols required in the password.| getPasswordMinimumUpperCase public int getPasswordMinimumUpperCase (ComponentName admin) This method was deprecated in API level 31. see setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int) for details. Retrieve the current number of upper case letters required in the password for a particular admin or all admins that set restrictions on this user and its participating profiles. Restrictions on profiles that have a separate challenge are not taken into account. This is the same value as set by setPasswordMinimumUpperCase(android.content.ComponentName, int) and only applies when the password quality is PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always treated as empty. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to retrieve restrictions on the parent profile. |Parameters| |Returns| |The minimum number of upper case letters required in the password.| getPasswordQuality public int getPasswordQuality (ComponentName admin) This method was deprecated in API level 31. see setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int) for details. Retrieve the current minimum password quality for a particular admin or all admins that set restrictions on this user and its participating profiles. Restrictions on profiles that have a separate challenge are not taken into account. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to retrieve restrictions on the parent profile. Note: on devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always treated as empty. |Parameters| |Returns| getPendingSystemUpdate public SystemUpdateInfo getPendingSystemUpdate (ComponentName admin) Called by device or profile owners to get information about a pending system update. |Parameters| |Returns| |Information about a pending system update or | |Throws| |if | getPermissionGrantState public int getPermissionGrantState (ComponentName admin, String packageName, String permission) Returns the current grant state of a runtime permission for a specific application. This function can be called by a device owner, profile owner, or by a delegate given the DELEGATION_PERMISSION_GRANT scope via setDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String, List. |Parameters| |Returns| |the current grant state specified by device policy. If the profile or device owner has not set a grant state, the return value is | |Throws| |if | getPermissionPolicy public int getPermissionPolicy (ComponentName admin) Returns the current runtime permission policy set by the device or profile owner. The default is PERMISSION_POLICY_PROMPT. |Parameters| |Returns| |the current policy for future permission requests.| getPermittedAccessibilityServices public List<String> getPermittedAccessibilityServices (ComponentName admin) Returns the list of permitted accessibility services set by this device or profile owner. An empty list means no accessibility services except system services are allowed. Null means all accessibility services are allowed. |Parameters| |Returns| |List of accessiblity service package names. This value may be | |Throws| |if | getPermittedCrossProfileNotificationListeners public List<String> getPermittedCrossProfileNotificationListeners (ComponentName admin) Returns the list of packages installed on the primary user that allowed to use a NotificationListenerService to receive notifications from this managed profile, as set by the profile owner. An empty list means no notification listener services except system ones are allowed. A null return value indicates that all notification listeners are allowed. |Parameters| |Returns| getPermittedInputMethods public List<String> getPermittedInputMethods (ComponentName admin) Returns the list of permitted input methods set by this device or profile owner. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance, returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName), where the caller must be a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile. If called on the parent instance, then the returned list of permitted input methods are those which are applied on the personal profile. An empty list means no input methods except system input methods are allowed. Null means all input methods are allowed. |Parameters| |Returns| |List of input method package names. This value may be | |Throws| |if | getPersonalAppsSuspendedReasons public int getPersonalAppsSuspendedReasons (ComponentName admin) Called by profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to check whether personal apps are suspended. |Parameters| |Returns| |a bitmask of reasons for personal apps suspension or | getRequiredPasswordComplexity public int getRequiredPasswordComplexity () Gets the password complexity requirement set by setRequiredPasswordComplexity(int), for the current user. The difference between this method and getPasswordComplexity() is that this method simply returns the value set by setRequiredPasswordComplexity(int) while getPasswordComplexity() returns the complexity of the actual password. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to get restrictions on the parent profile. |Returns| |Value is | |Throws| |if the calling application is not a device owner or a profile owner.| getRequiredStrongAuthTimeout public long getRequiredStrongAuthTimeout (ComponentName admin) Determine for how long the user will be able to use secondary, non strong auth for authentication, since last strong method authentication (password, pin or pattern) was used. After the returned timeout the user is required to use strong authentication method. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to retrieve restrictions on the parent profile. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, 0 is returned to indicate that no timeout is configured. Requires the PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature which can be detected using PackageManager.hasSystemFeature(String). |Parameters| |Returns| |The timeout in milliseconds or 0 if not configured for the provided admin.| getScreenCaptureDisabled public boolean getScreenCaptureDisabled (ComponentName admin) Determine whether or not screen capture has been disabled by the calling admin, if specified, or all admins. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance, returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName), where the caller must be the profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile (the calling admin must be specified). |Parameters| |Returns| getSecondaryUsers public List<UserHandle> getSecondaryUsers (ComponentName admin) Called by a device owner to list all secondary users on the device. Managed profiles are not considered as secondary users. Used for various user management APIs, including switchUser(ComponentName, UserHandle), removeUser(ComponentName, UserHandle) and stopUser(ComponentName, UserHandle). |Parameters| |Returns| |list of other | |Throws| |if | getShortSupportMessage public CharSequence getShortSupportMessage (ComponentName admin) Called by a device admin to get the short support message. |Parameters| |Returns| |The message set by | |Throws| |if | getStartUserSessionMessage public CharSequence getStartUserSessionMessage (ComponentName admin) Returns the user session start message. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | getStorageEncryption public boolean getStorageEncryption (ComponentName admin) This method was deprecated in API level 30. This method only returns the value set by setStorageEncryption(ComponentName, boolean). It does not actually reflect the storage encryption status. Use getStorageEncryptionStatus() for that. Called by an application that is administering the device to determine the requested setting for secure storage. |Parameters| |Returns| |true if the admin(s) are requesting encryption, false if not.| getStorageEncryptionStatus public int getStorageEncryptionStatus () Called by an application that is administering the device to determine the current encryption status of the device. Depending on the returned status code, the caller may proceed in different ways. If the result is ENCRYPTION_STATUS_UNSUPPORTED, the storage system does not support encryption. If the result is ENCRYPTION_STATUS_INACTIVE, use ACTION_START_ENCRYPTION to begin the process of encrypting or decrypting the storage. If the result is ENCRYPTION_STATUS_ACTIVE_DEFAULT_KEY, the storage system has enabled encryption but no password is set so further action may be required. If the result is ENCRYPTION_STATUS_ACTIVATING, ENCRYPTION_STATUS_ACTIVE or ENCRYPTION_STATUS_ACTIVE_PER_USER, no further action is required. |Returns| |current status of encryption. The value will be one of | getSystemUpdatePolicy public SystemUpdatePolicy getSystemUpdatePolicy () Retrieve a local system update policy set previously by setSystemUpdatePolicy(ComponentName, SystemUpdatePolicy). |Returns| |The current policy object, or | getTransferOwnershipBundle public PersistableBundle getTransferOwnershipBundle () Returns the data passed from the current administrator to the new administrator during an ownership transfer. This is the same bundle passed in transferOwnership(android.content.ComponentName, android.content.ComponentName, android.os.PersistableBundle). The bundle is persisted until the profile owner or device owner is removed. This is the same bundle received in the DeviceAdminReceiver#onTransferOwnershipComplete(Context, PersistableBundle). Use this method to retrieve it after the transfer as long as the new administrator is the active device or profile owner. Returns null if no ownership transfer was started for the calling user. |Returns| |Throws| |if the caller is not a device or profile owner.| getTrustAgentConfiguration public List<PersistableBundle> getTrustAgentConfiguration (ComponentName admin, ComponentName agent) Gets configuration for the given trust agent based on aggregating all calls to setTrustAgentConfiguration(android.content.ComponentName, android.content.ComponentName, android.os.PersistableBundle) for all device admins. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to retrieve the configuration set on the parent profile. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, null is always returned. Requires the PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature which can be detected using PackageManager.hasSystemFeature(String). |Parameters| |Returns| |configuration for the given trust agent.| getUserControlDisabledPackages public List<String> getUserControlDisabledPackages (ComponentName admin) Returns the list of packages over which user control is disabled by the device owner. |Parameters| |Returns| |This value cannot be | |Throws| |if | getUserRestrictions public Bundle getUserRestrictions (ComponentName admin) Called by a profile or device owner to get user restrictions set with addUserRestriction(android.content.ComponentName, java.lang.String). The target user may have more restrictions set by the system or other device owner / profile owner. To get all the user restrictions currently set, use UserManager#getUserRestrictions(). The profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile may invoke this method on the DevicePolicyManager instance it obtained from getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName), for retrieving device-wide restrictions it previously set with addUserRestriction(android.content.ComponentName, java.lang.String). |Parameters| |Returns| |a | |Throws| |if | getWifiMacAddress public String getWifiMacAddress (ComponentName admin) Called by device owner, or profile owner on organization-owned device, to get the MAC address of the Wi-Fi device. NOTE: The MAC address returned here should only be used for inventory management and is not likely to be the MAC address used by the device to connect to Wi-Fi networks: MAC addresses used for scanning and connecting to Wi-Fi networks are randomized by default. To get the randomized MAC address used, call WifiConfiguration.getRandomizedMacAddress(). |Parameters| |Returns| |the MAC address of the Wi-Fi device, or null when the information is not available. (For example, Wi-Fi hasn't been enabled, or the device doesn't support Wi-Fi.) | The address will be in the |Throws| |if | grantKeyPairToApp public boolean grantKeyPairToApp (ComponentName admin, String alias, String packageName) Called by a device or profile owner, or delegated certificate chooser (an app that has been delegated the DELEGATION_CERT_SELECTION privilege), to grant an application access to an already-installed (or generated) KeyChain key. This is useful (in combination with installKeyPair(ComponentName, PrivateKey, Certificate, String) or generateKeyPair(ComponentName, String, KeyGenParameterSpec, int)) to let an application call KeyChain.getPrivateKey(Context, String) without having to call KeyChain.choosePrivateKeyAlias(Activity, KeyChainAliasCallback, String[], Principal[], Uri, String) first. The grantee app will receive the KeyChain.ACTION_KEY_ACCESS_CHANGED broadcast when access to a key is granted. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if the caller is not a device owner, a profile owner or delegated certificate chooser.| |if | grantKeyPairToWifiAuth public boolean grantKeyPairToWifiAuth (String alias) Called by a device or profile owner, or delegated certificate chooser (an app that has been delegated the DELEGATION_CERT_SELECTION privilege), to allow using a KeyChain key pair for authentication to Wifi networks. The key can then be used in configurations passed to WifiManager.addNetwork(WifiConfiguration). |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if the caller is not a device owner, a profile owner or delegated certificate chooser.| hasCaCertInstalled public boolean hasCaCertInstalled (ComponentName admin, byte[] certBuffer) Returns whether this certificate is installed as a trusted CA. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | hasGrantedPolicy public boolean hasGrantedPolicy (ComponentName admin, int usesPolicy) Returns true if an administrator has been granted a particular device policy. This can be used to check whether the administrator was activated under an earlier set of policies, but requires additional policies after an upgrade. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | hasKeyPair public boolean hasKeyPair (String alias) This API can be called by the following to query whether a certificate and private key are installed under a given alias: - Device owner - Profile owner - Delegated certificate installer - Credential management app AppUriAuthenticationPolicy. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if the caller is not a device or profile owner, a delegated certificate installer or the credential management app.| hasLockdownAdminConfiguredNetworks public boolean hasLockdownAdminConfiguredNetworks (ComponentName admin) Called by a device owner or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to determine whether the user is prevented from modifying networks configured by the admin. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if caller is not a device owner or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile.| installCaCert public boolean installCaCert (ComponentName admin, byte[] certBuffer) Installs the given certificate as a user CA. Inserted user CAs aren't automatically trusted by apps in Android 7.0 (API level 24) and higher. App developers can change the default behavior for an app by adding a Security Configuration File to the app manifest file. The caller must be a profile or device owner on that user, or a delegate package given the DELEGATION_CERT_INSTALL scope via setDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String, List; otherwise a security exception will be thrown. |Parameters| |Returns| |false if the certBuffer cannot be parsed or installation is interrupted, true otherwise.| |Throws| |if | installExistingPackage public boolean installExistingPackage (ComponentName admin, String packageName) Install an existing package that has been installed in another user, or has been kept after removal via setKeepUninstalledPackages(ComponentName, List. This function can be called by a device owner, profile owner or a delegate given the DELEGATION_INSTALL_EXISTING_PACKAGE scope via setDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String, List. When called in a secondary user or managed profile, the user/profile must be affiliated with the device. See isAffiliatedUser(). |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | installKeyPair public boolean installKeyPair (ComponentName admin, PrivateKey privKey, Certificate[] certs, String alias, int flags) This API can be called by the following to install a certificate chain and corresponding private key for the leaf certificate: - Device owner - Profile owner - Delegated certificate installer - Credential management app From Android Build.VERSION_CODES.S, the credential management app can call this API. If called by the credential management app: - The componentName must be nullr - The alias must exist in the credential management app's AppUriAuthenticationPolicy - The key pair must not be user selectable The caller of this API may grant itself access to the certificate and private key immediately, without user approval. It is a best practice not to request this unless strictly necessary since it opens up additional security vulnerabilities. Include INSTALLKEY_SET_USER_SELECTABLE in the flags argument to allow the user to select the key from a dialog. Note: If the provided alias is of an existing alias, all former grants that apps have been given to access the key and certificates associated with this alias will be revoked. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | installKeyPair public boolean installKeyPair (ComponentName admin, PrivateKey privKey, Certificate[] certs, String alias, boolean requestAccess) This API can be called by the following to install a certificate chain and corresponding private key for the leaf certificate: - Device owner - Profile owner - Delegated certificate installer - Credential management app From Android Build.VERSION_CODES.S, the credential management app can call this API. However, this API sets the key pair as user selectable by default, which is not permitted when called by the credential management app. Instead, installKeyPair(android.content.ComponentName, java.security.PrivateKey, java.security.cert.Certificate[], java.lang.String, int) should be called with INSTALLKEY_SET_USER_SELECTABLE not set as a flag. Note, there can only be a credential management app on an unmanaged device. The caller of this API may grant itself access to the certificate and private key immediately, without user approval. It is a best practice not to request this unless strictly necessary since it opens up additional security vulnerabilities. Note: If the provided alias is of an existing alias, all former grants that apps have been given to access the key and certificates associated with this alias will be revoked. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | installKeyPair public boolean installKeyPair (ComponentName admin, PrivateKey privKey, Certificate cert, String alias) This API can be called by the following to install a certificate and corresponding private key: - Device owner - Profile owner - Delegated certificate installer - Credential management app From Android Build.VERSION_CODES.S, the credential management app can call this API. However, this API sets the key pair as user selectable by default, which is not permitted when called by the credential management app. Instead, installKeyPair(android.content.ComponentName, java.security.PrivateKey, java.security.cert.Certificate[], java.lang.String, int) should be called with INSTALLKEY_SET_USER_SELECTABLE not set as a flag. Access to the installed credentials will not be granted to the caller of this API without direct user approval. This is for security - should a certificate installer become compromised, certificates it had already installed will be protected. If the installer must have access to the credentials, call installKeyPair(android.content.ComponentName, java.security.PrivateKey, java.security.cert.Certificate[], java.lang.String, boolean) instead. Note: If the provided alias is of an existing alias, all former grants that apps have been given to access the key and certificates associated with this alias will be revoked. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | installSystemUpdate public void installSystemUpdate (ComponentName admin, Uri updateFilePath, Executor executor, DevicePolicyManager.InstallSystemUpdateCallback callback) Called by device owner or profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to install a system update from the given file. The device will be rebooted in order to finish installing the update. Note that if the device is rebooted, this doesn't necessarily mean that the update has been applied successfully. The caller should additionally check the system version with Build.FINGERPRINT or Build.VERSION. If an error occurs during processing the OTA before the reboot, the caller will be notified by InstallSystemUpdateCallback. If device does not have sufficient battery level, the installation will fail with error DevicePolicyManager.InstallSystemUpdateCallback.UPDATE_ERROR_BATTERY_LOW. |Parameters| isActivePasswordSufficient public boolean isActivePasswordSufficient () Determines whether the calling user's current password meets policy requirements (e.g. quality, minimum length). The user must be unlocked to perform this check. Policy requirements which affect this check can be set by admins of the user, but also by the admin of a managed profile associated with the calling user (when the managed profile doesn't have a separate work challenge). When a managed profile has a separate work challenge, its policy requirements only affect the managed profile. Depending on the user, this method checks the policy requirement against one of the following passwords: - For the primary user or secondary users: the personal keyguard password. - For managed profiles: a work challenge if set, otherwise the parent user's personal keyguard password. Note that this method considers all policy requirements targeting the password in question. For example a profile owner might set a requirement on the parent profile i.e. personal keyguard but not on the profile itself. When the device has a weak personal keyguard password and no separate work challenge, calling this method will return falsedespite the profile owner not setting a policy on the profile itself. This is because the profile's current password is the personal keyguard password, and it does not meet all policy requirements. Device admins must request DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_LIMIT_PASSWORDbefore calling this method. Note, this policy type is deprecated for device admins in Android 9.0 (API level 28) or higher. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManagerinstance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName)in order to determine if the password set on the parent profile is sufficient. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREENfeature, the password is always treated as empty - i.e. this method will always return false on such devices, provided any password requirements were set. Returns boolean trueif the password meets the policy requirements, falseotherwise Throws SecurityException if the calling application isn't an active admin that uses DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_LIMIT_PASSWORD IllegalStateException if the user isn't unlocked isActivePasswordSufficientForDeviceRequirement public boolean isActivePasswordSufficientForDeviceRequirement () Called by profile owner of a managed profile to determine whether the current device password meets policy requirements set explicitly device-wide. This API is similar to isActivePasswordSufficient(), with two notable differences: - this API always targets the device password. As a result it should always be called on the getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName)instance. - password policy requirement set on the managed profile is not taken into consideration by this API, even if the device currently does not have a separate work challenge set. This API is designed to facilite progressive password enrollment flows when the DPC imposes both device and profile password policies. DPC applies profile password policy by calling setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int) or setRequiredPasswordComplexity(int) on the regular DevicePolicyManager instance, while it applies device-wide policy by calling setRequiredPasswordComplexity(int) on the getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) instance. The DPC can utilize this check to guide the user to set a device password first taking into consideration the device-wide policy only, and then prompt the user to either upgrade it to be fully compliant, or enroll a separate work challenge to satisfy the profile password policy only. The device user must be unlocked (@link UserManager#isUserUnlocked(UserHandle)) to perform this check. |Returns| |Throws| |if the calling application is not a profile owner of a managed profile, or if this API is not called on the parent DevicePolicyManager instance.| |if the user isn't unlocked| isAdminActive public boolean isAdminActive (ComponentName admin) Return true if the given administrator component is currently active (enabled) in the system. |Parameters| |Returns| isAffiliatedUser public boolean isAffiliatedUser () Returns whether this user is affiliated with the device. By definition, the user that the device owner runs on is always affiliated with the device. Any other user is considered affiliated with the device if the set specified by its profile owner via setAffiliationIds(ComponentName, Set intersects with the device owner's. |Returns| isAlwaysOnVpnLockdownEnabled public boolean isAlwaysOnVpnLockdownEnabled (ComponentName admin) Called by device or profile owner to query whether current always-on VPN is configured in lockdown mode. Returns false when no always-on configuration is set. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | isApplicationHidden public boolean isApplicationHidden (ComponentName admin, String packageName) Determine if a package is hidden. This function can be called by a device owner, profile owner, or by a delegate given the DELEGATION_PACKAGE_ACCESS scope via setDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String, List. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance, returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName), where the caller must be the profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile and the package must be a system package. If called on the parent instance, this will determine whether the package is hidden or unhidden in the personal profile. |Parameters| |Returns| |boolean | |Throws| |if | |if called on the parent profile and the package provided is not a system package.| isBackupServiceEnabled public boolean isBackupServiceEnabled (ComponentName admin) Return whether the backup service is enabled by the device owner or profile owner for the current user, as previously set by setBackupServiceEnabled(android.content.ComponentName, boolean). Whether the backup functionality is actually enabled or not depends on settings from both the current user and the device owner, please see setBackupServiceEnabled(android.content.ComponentName, boolean) for details. Backup service manages all backup and restore mechanisms on the device. |Parameters| |Returns| isCallerApplicationRestrictionsManagingPackage public boolean isCallerApplicationRestrictionsManagingPackage () This method was deprecated in API level 26. From Build.VERSION_CODES.O. Use getDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String) instead. Called by any application to find out whether it has been granted permission via setApplicationRestrictionsManagingPackage(ComponentName, String) to manage application restrictions for the calling user. This is done by comparing the calling Linux uid with the uid of the package specified by that method. |Returns| isCommonCriteriaModeEnabled public boolean isCommonCriteriaModeEnabled (ComponentName admin) Returns whether Common Criteria mode is currently enabled. Device owner and profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile can query its own Common Criteria mode setting by calling this method with its admin ComponentName. Any caller can obtain the aggregated device-wide Common Criteria mode state by passing null as the admin argument. |Parameters| |Returns| isComplianceAcknowledgementRequired public boolean isComplianceAcknowledgementRequired () Called by a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to query whether it needs to acknowledge device compliance to allow the user to turn the profile off if needed according to the maximum profile time off policy. Normally when acknowledgement is needed the DPC gets a DeviceAdminReceiver#onComplianceAcknowledgementRequired(Context, Intent) callback. But if the callback was not delivered or handled for some reason, this method can be used to verify if acknowledgement is needed. |Returns| |Throws| |if the user isn't unlocked| isDeviceIdAttestationSupported public boolean isDeviceIdAttestationSupported () Returns true if the device supports attestation of device identifiers in addition to key attestation. See generateKeyPair(android.content.ComponentName, java.lang.String, android.security.keystore.KeyGenParameterSpec, int) |Returns| isDeviceOwnerApp public boolean isDeviceOwnerApp (String packageName) Used to determine if a particular package has been registered as a Device Owner app. A device owner app is a special device admin that cannot be deactivated by the user, once activated as a device admin. It also cannot be uninstalled. To check whether a particular package is currently registered as the device owner app, pass in the package name from Context#getPackageName() to this method. |Parameters| |Returns| |whether or not the package is registered as the device owner app.| isEphemeralUser public boolean isEphemeralUser (ComponentName admin) Checks if the profile owner is running in an ephemeral user. |Parameters| |Returns| |whether the profile owner is running in an ephemeral user.| isKeyPairGrantedToWifiAuth public boolean isKeyPairGrantedToWifiAuth (String alias) Called by a device or profile owner, or delegated certificate chooser (an app that has been delegated the DELEGATION_CERT_SELECTION privilege), to query whether a KeyChain key pair can be used for authentication to Wifi networks. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if the caller is not a device owner, a profile owner or delegated certificate chooser.| isLockTaskPermitted public boolean isLockTaskPermitted (String pkg) This function lets the caller know whether the given component is allowed to start the lock task mode. |Parameters| |Returns| isLogoutEnabled public boolean isLogoutEnabled () Returns whether logout is enabled by a device owner. |Returns| isManagedProfile public boolean isManagedProfile (ComponentName admin) Return if this user is a managed profile of another user. An admin can become the profile owner of a managed profile with ACTION_PROVISION_MANAGED_PROFILE and of a managed user with createAndManageUser(ComponentName, String, ComponentName, PersistableBundle, int) |Parameters| |Returns| |if this user is a managed profile of another user.| isMasterVolumeMuted public boolean isMasterVolumeMuted (ComponentName admin) Called by profile or device owners to check whether the global volume mute is on or off. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | isNetworkLoggingEnabled public boolean isNetworkLoggingEnabled (ComponentName admin) Return whether network logging is enabled by a device owner or profile owner of a managed profile. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | isOrganizationOwnedDeviceWithManagedProfile public boolean isOrganizationOwnedDeviceWithManagedProfile () Apps can use this method to find out if the device was provisioned as organization-owend device with a managed profile. This, together with checking whether the device has a device owner (by calling isDeviceOwnerApp(String)), could be used to learn whether the device is owned by an organization or an individual: If this method returns true OR isDeviceOwnerApp(String) returns true (for any package), then the device is owned by an organization. Otherwise, it's owned by an individual. |Returns| isOverrideApnEnabled public boolean isOverrideApnEnabled (ComponentName admin) Called by device owner to check if override APNs are currently enabled. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | isPackageSuspended public boolean isPackageSuspended (ComponentName admin, String packageName) Determine if a package is suspended. This function can be called by a device owner, profile owner, or by a delegate given the DELEGATION_PACKAGE_ACCESS scope via setDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String, List. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | |if the package could not be found.| isPreferentialNetworkServiceEnabled public boolean isPreferentialNetworkServiceEnabled () Indicates whether preferential network service is enabled. This method can be called by the profile owner of a managed profile. |Returns| |whether preferential network service is enabled.| |Throws| |if the caller is not the profile owner.| isProfileOwnerApp public boolean isProfileOwnerApp (String packageName) Used to determine if a particular package is registered as the profile owner for the user. A profile owner is a special device admin that has additional privileges within the profile. |Parameters| |Returns| |Whether or not the package is registered as the profile owner.| isProvisioningAllowed public boolean isProvisioningAllowed (String action) Returns whether it is possible for the caller to initiate provisioning of a managed profile or device, setting itself as the device or profile owner. |Parameters| |Returns| |whether provisioning a managed profile or device is possible.| |Throws| |if the supplied action is not valid.| isResetPasswordTokenActive public boolean isResetPasswordTokenActive (ComponentName admin) Called by a profile or device owner to check if the current reset password token is active. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, false is always returned. Requires the PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature which can be detected using PackageManager.hasSystemFeature(String). |Parameters| |Returns| |true if the token is active, false otherwise.| |Throws| |if admin is not a device or profile owner.| |if no token has been set.| isSafeOperation public boolean isSafeOperation (int reason) Checks if it's safe to run operations that can be affected by the given reason. Note: notice that the operation safety state might change between the time this method returns and the operation's method is called, so calls to the latter could still throw a UnsafeStateException even when this method returns true. |Parameters| |Returns| |whether it's safe to run operations that can be affected by the given | isSecurityLoggingEnabled public boolean isSecurityLoggingEnabled (ComponentName admin) Return whether security logging is enabled or not by the admin. Can only be called by the device owner or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile, otherwise a SecurityException will be thrown. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | isUninstallBlocked public boolean isUninstallBlocked (ComponentName admin, String packageName) Check whether the user has been blocked by device policy from uninstalling a package. Requires the caller to be the profile owner if checking a specific admin's policy. Note: Starting from Build.VERSION_CODES.LOLLIPOP_MR1, the behavior of this API is changed such that passing null as the admin parameter will return if any admin has blocked the uninstallation. Before L MR1, passing null will cause a NullPointerException to be raised. Note: If your app targets Android 11 (API level 30) or higher, this method returns a filtered result. Learn more about how to manage package visibility. |Parameters| |Returns| |true if uninstallation is blocked and the given package is visible to you, false otherwise if uninstallation isn't blocked or the given package isn't visible to you.| |Throws| |if | isUniqueDeviceAttestationSupported public boolean isUniqueDeviceAttestationSupported () Returns true if the StrongBox Keymaster implementation on the device was provisioned with an individual attestation certificate and can sign attestation records using it (as attestation using an individual attestation certificate is a feature only Keymaster implementations with StrongBox security level can implement). For use prior to calling generateKeyPair(android.content.ComponentName, java.lang.String, android.security.keystore.KeyGenParameterSpec, int). |Returns| isUsbDataSignalingEnabled public boolean isUsbDataSignalingEnabled () Returns whether USB data signaling is currently enabled. When called by a device owner or profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile, this API returns whether USB data signaling is currently enabled by that admin. When called by any other app, returns whether USB data signaling is currently enabled on the device. |Returns| isUsingUnifiedPassword public boolean isUsingUnifiedPassword (ComponentName admin) When called by a profile owner of a managed profile returns true if the profile uses unified challenge with its parent user. Note: This method is not concerned with password quality and will return false if the profile has empty password as a separate challenge. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | listForegroundAffiliatedUsers public List<UserHandle> listForegroundAffiliatedUsers () Gets the list of affiliated users running on foreground. |Returns| |list of | |Throws| |if the calling application is not a device owner| lockNow public void lockNow () Make the device lock immediately, as if the lock screen timeout has expired at the point of this call. This method secures the device in response to an urgent situation, such as a lost or stolen device. After this method is called, the device must be unlocked using strong authentication (PIN, pattern, or password). This API is intended for use only by device admins. From version Build.VERSION_CODES.R onwards, the caller must either have the LOCK_DEVICE permission or the device must have the device admin feature; if neither is true, then the method will return without completing any action. Before version Build.VERSION_CODES.R, the device needed the device admin feature, regardless of the caller's permissions. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_FORCE_LOCK to be able to call this method; if it has not, a security exception will be thrown. If there's no lock type set, this method forces the device to go to sleep but doesn't lock the device. Device admins who find the device in this state can lock an otherwise-insecure device by first calling resetPassword(String, int) to set the password and then lock the device. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to lock the parent profile. NOTE: on automotive builds, this method doesn't turn off the screen as it would be a driving safety distraction. Equivalent to calling lockNow(int) with no flags. |Throws| |if the calling application does not own an active administrator that uses | lockNow public void lockNow (int flags) Make the device lock immediately, as if the lock screen timeout has expired at the point of this call. This method secures the device in response to an urgent situation, such as a lost or stolen device. After this method is called, the device must be unlocked using strong authentication (PIN, pattern, or password). This API is intended for use only by device admins. From version Build.VERSION_CODES.R onwards, the caller must either have the LOCK_DEVICE permission or the device must have the device admin feature; if neither is true, then the method will return without completing any action. Before version Build.VERSION_CODES.R, the device needed the device admin feature, regardless of the caller's permissions. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_FORCE_LOCK to be able to call this method; if it has not, a security exception will be thrown. If there's no lock type set, this method forces the device to go to sleep but doesn't lock the device. Device admins who find the device in this state can lock an otherwise-insecure device by first calling resetPassword(String, int) to set the password and then lock the device. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to lock the parent profile as well as the managed profile. NOTE: In order to lock the parent profile and evict the encryption key of the managed profile, lockNow() must be called twice: First, lockNow() should be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName), then lockNow(int) should be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance associated with the managed profile, with the FLAG_EVICT_CREDENTIAL_ENCRYPTION_KEY flag. Calling the method twice in this order ensures that all users are locked and does not stop the device admin on the managed profile from issuing a second call to lock its own profile. NOTE: on automotive builds, this method doesn't turn off the screen as it would be a driving safety distraction. |Parameters| |Throws| |if the calling application does not own an active administrator that uses | |if the | |if the | logoutUser public int logoutUser (ComponentName admin) Called by a profile owner of secondary user that is affiliated with the device to stop the calling user and switch back to primary user. Notice that on devices running with headless system user mode, there is no primary user, so it switches back to the user that was in the foreground before the first call to switchUser(android.content.ComponentName, android.os.UserHandle) (or fails with UserManager#USER_OPERATION_ERROR_UNKNOWN if that method was not called prior to this call). |Parameters| |Returns| |one of the following result codes: | |Throws| |if | reboot public void reboot (ComponentName admin) Called by device owner to reboot the device. If there is an ongoing call on the device, throws an IllegalStateException. |Parameters| |Throws| |if device has an ongoing call.| |if | removeActiveAdmin public void removeActiveAdmin (ComponentName admin) Remove a current administration component. This can only be called by the application that owns the administration component; if you try to remove someone else's component, a security exception will be thrown. Note that the operation is not synchronous and the admin might still be active (as indicated by getActiveAdmins()) by the time this method returns. |Parameters| |Throws| |if the caller is not in the owner application of | removeCrossProfileWidgetProvider public boolean removeCrossProfileWidgetProvider (ComponentName admin, String packageName) Called by the profile owner of a managed profile to disable widget providers from a given package to be available in the parent profile. For this method to take effect the package should have been added via addCrossProfileWidgetProvider(android.content.ComponentName, java.lang.String). Note: By default no widget provider package is allowlisted. |Parameters| |Returns| |Whether the package was removed.| |Throws| |if | removeKeyPair public boolean removeKeyPair (ComponentName admin, String alias) This API can be called by the following to remove a certificate and private key pair installed under a given alias: - Device owner - Profile owner - Delegated certificate installer - Credential management app From Android Build.VERSION_CODES.S, the credential management app can call this API. If called by the credential management app, the componentName must be null. Note, there can only be a credential management app on an unmanaged device. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | removeOverrideApn public boolean removeOverrideApn (ComponentName admin, int apnId) Called by device owner to remove an override APN. This method may returns false if there is no override APN with the given apnId. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | removeUser public boolean removeUser (ComponentName admin, UserHandle userHandle) Called by a device owner to remove a user/profile and all associated data. The primary user can not be removed. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | requestBugreport public boolean requestBugreport (ComponentName admin) Called by a device owner to request a bugreport. If the device contains secondary users or profiles, they must be affiliated with the device. Otherwise a SecurityException will be thrown. See isAffiliatedUser(). |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | resetPassword Deprecated in API level 30 public boolean resetPassword (String password, int flags) This method was deprecated in API level 30. Please use resetPasswordWithToken(ComponentName, String, byte[], int) instead. Force a new password for device unlock (the password needed to access the entire device) or the work profile challenge on the current user. This takes effect immediately. Before Build.VERSION_CODES.N, this API is available to device admin, profile owner and device owner. Starting from Build.VERSION_CODES.N, legacy device admin (who is not also profile owner or device owner) can only call this API to set a new password if there is currently no password set. Profile owner and device owner can continue to force change an existing password as long as the target user is unlocked, although device owner will not be able to call this API at all if there is also a managed profile on the device. Between Build.VERSION_CODES.O, Build.VERSION_CODES.P and Build.VERSION_CODES.Q, profile owner and devices owner targeting SDK level Build.VERSION_CODES.O or above who attempt to call this API will receive SecurityException; they are encouraged to migrate to the new resetPasswordWithToken(ComponentName, String, byte[], int) API instead. Profile owner and device owner targeting older SDK levels are not affected: they continue to experience the existing behaviour described in the previous paragraph. Starting from Build.VERSION_CODES.R, this API is no longer supported in most cases. Device owner and profile owner calling this API will receive SecurityException if they target SDK level Build.VERSION_CODES.O or above, or they will receive a silent failure (API returning false) if they target lower SDK level. For legacy device admins, this API throws SecurityException if they target SDK level Build.VERSION_CODES.N or above, and returns false otherwise. Only privileged apps holding RESET_PASSWORD permission which are part of the system factory image can still call this API to set a new password if there is currently no password set. In this case, if the device already has a password, this API will throw SecurityException. The given password must be sufficient for the current password quality and length constraints as returned by getPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName) and getPasswordMinimumLength(android.content.ComponentName); if it does not meet these constraints, then it will be rejected and false returned. Note that the password may be a stronger quality (containing alphanumeric characters when the requested quality is only numeric), in which case the currently active quality will be increased to match. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, this methods does nothing. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_RESET_PASSWORD to be able to call this method; if it has not, a security exception will be thrown. Requires the PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature which can be detected using PackageManager.hasSystemFeature(String). |Parameters| |Returns| |Returns true if the password was applied, or false if it is not acceptable for the current constraints.| |Throws| |if the calling application does not own an active administrator that uses | |if the calling user is locked or has a managed profile.| resetPasswordWithToken public boolean resetPasswordWithToken (ComponentName admin, String password, byte[] token, int flags) Called by device or profile owner to force set a new device unlock password or a managed profile challenge on current user. This takes effect immediately. Unlike resetPassword(String, int), this API can change the password even before the user or device is unlocked or decrypted. The supplied token must have been previously provisioned via setResetPasswordToken(ComponentName, byte[]), and in active state isResetPasswordTokenActive(ComponentName). The given password must be sufficient for the current password quality and length constraints as returned by getPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName) and getPasswordMinimumLength(android.content.ComponentName); if it does not meet these constraints, then it will be rejected and false returned. Note that the password may be a stronger quality, for example, a password containing alphanumeric characters when the requested quality is only numeric. Calling with a null or empty password will clear any existing PIN, pattern or password if the current password constraints allow it. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, calling this methods has no effect - the password is always empty - and false is returned. Requires the PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature which can be detected using PackageManager.hasSystemFeature(String). |Parameters| |Returns| |Returns true if the password was applied, or false if it is not acceptable for the current constraints.| |Throws| |if admin is not a device or profile owner.| |if the provided token is not valid.| retrieveNetworkLogs public List<NetworkEvent> retrieveNetworkLogs (ComponentName admin, long batchToken) Called by device owner, profile owner of a managed profile or delegated app with DELEGATION_NETWORK_LOGGING to retrieve the most recent batch of network logging events. When network logging is enabled by a profile owner, the network logs will only include work profile network activity, not activity on the personal profile. A device owner or profile owner has to provide a batchToken provided as part of DeviceAdminReceiver#onNetworkLogsAvailable callback. If the token doesn't match the token of the most recent available batch of logs, null will be returned. NetworkEvent can be one of DnsEvent or ConnectEvent. The list of network events is sorted chronologically, and contains at most 1200 events. Access to the logs is rate limited and this method will only return a new batch of logs after the device device owner has been notified via DeviceAdminReceiver#onNetworkLogsAvailable. If the caller is not a profile owner and a secondary user or profile is created, calling this method will throw a SecurityException until all users become affiliated again. It will also no longer be possible to retrieve the network logs batch with the most recent batchToken provided by DeviceAdminReceiver#onNetworkLogsAvailable. See DevicePolicyManager#setAffiliationIds. |Parameters| |Returns| |A new batch of network logs which is a list of | |Throws| |if | retrievePreRebootSecurityLogs public List<SecurityLog.SecurityEvent> retrievePreRebootSecurityLogs (ComponentName admin) Called by device owner or profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to retrieve device logs from before the device's last reboot. This API is not supported on all devices. Calling this API on unsupported devices will result in null being returned. The device logs are retrieved from a RAM region which is not guaranteed to be corruption-free during power cycles, as a result be cautious about data corruption when parsing. When called by a device owner, if there is any other user or profile on the device, it must be affiliated with the device. Otherwise a SecurityException will be thrown. See isAffiliatedUser(). |Parameters| |Returns| |Device logs from before the latest reboot of the system, or | |Throws| |if | retrieveSecurityLogs public List<SecurityLog.SecurityEvent> retrieveSecurityLogs (ComponentName admin) Called by device owner or profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to retrieve all new security logging entries since the last call to this API after device boots. Access to the logs is rate limited and it will only return new logs after the device owner has been notified via DeviceAdminReceiver#onSecurityLogsAvailable. When called by a device owner, if there is any other user or profile on the device, it must be affiliated with the device. Otherwise a SecurityException will be thrown. See isAffiliatedUser(). |Parameters| |Returns| |the new batch of security logs which is a list of | |Throws| |if | revokeKeyPairFromApp public boolean revokeKeyPairFromApp (ComponentName admin, String alias, String packageName) Called by a device or profile owner, or delegated certificate chooser (an app that has been delegated the DELEGATION_CERT_SELECTION privilege), to revoke an application's grant to a KeyChain key pair. Calls by the application to KeyChain.getPrivateKey(Context, String) will fail after the grant is revoked. The grantee app will receive the KeyChain.ACTION_KEY_ACCESS_CHANGED broadcast when access to a key is revoked. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if the caller is not a device owner, a profile owner or delegated certificate chooser.| |if | revokeKeyPairFromWifiAuth public boolean revokeKeyPairFromWifiAuth (String alias) Called by a device or profile owner, or delegated certificate chooser (an app that has been delegated the DELEGATION_CERT_SELECTION privilege), to deny using a KeyChain key pair for authentication to Wifi networks. Configured networks using this key won't be able to authenticate. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if the caller is not a device owner, a profile owner or delegated certificate chooser.| setAccountManagementDisabled public void setAccountManagementDisabled (ComponentName admin, String accountType, boolean disabled) Called by a device owner or profile owner to disable account management for a specific type of account. The calling device admin must be a device owner or profile owner. If it is not, a security exception will be thrown. When account management is disabled for an account type, adding or removing an account of that type will not be possible. From Build.VERSION_CODES.N the profile or device owner can still use AccountManager APIs to add or remove accounts when account management for a specific type is disabled. This method may be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned from getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) by the profile owner on an organization-owned device, to restrict accounts that may not be managed on the primary profile. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setAffiliationIds public void setAffiliationIds (ComponentName admin, Set<String> ids) Indicates the entity that controls the device. Two users are affiliated if the set of ids set by the device owner and the admin of the secondary user. A user that is affiliated with the device owner user is considered to be affiliated with the device. Note: Features that depend on user affiliation (such as security logging or bindDeviceAdminServiceAsUser(ComponentName, Intent, ServiceConnection, int, UserHandle)) won't be available when a secondary user is created, until it becomes affiliated. Therefore it is recommended that the appropriate affiliation ids are set by its owner as soon as possible after the user is created. Note: This method used to be available for affiliating device owner and profile owner. However, since Android 11, this combination is not possible. This method is now only useful for affiliating the primary user with managed secondary users. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setAlwaysOnVpnPackage public void setAlwaysOnVpnPackage (ComponentName admin, String vpnPackage, boolean lockdownEnabled) Called by a device or profile owner to configure an always-on VPN connection through a specific application for the current user. This connection is automatically granted and persisted after a reboot. To support the always-on feature, an app must - declare a VpnServicein its manifest, guarded by Manifest.permission.BIND_VPN_SERVICE; - target API 24or above; and - not explicitly opt out of the feature through VpnService.SERVICE_META_DATA_SUPPORTS_ALWAYS_ON. Enabling lockdown via lockdownEnabled argument carries the risk that any failure of the VPN provider could break networking for all apps. This method clears any lockdown allowlist set by setAlwaysOnVpnPackage(android.content.ComponentName, java.lang.String, boolean, java.util.Set). Starting from API 31 calling this method with vpnPackage set to null only removes the existing configuration if it was previously created by this admin. To remove VPN configuration created by the user use UserManager#DISALLOW_CONFIG_VPN. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | |if | |if | setAlwaysOnVpnPackage public void setAlwaysOnVpnPackage (ComponentName admin, String vpnPackage, boolean lockdownEnabled, Set<String> lockdownAllowlist) A version of setAlwaysOnVpnPackage(android.content.ComponentName, java.lang.String, boolean) that allows the admin to specify a set of apps that should be able to access the network directly when VPN is not connected. When VPN connects these apps switch over to VPN if allowed to use that VPN. System apps can always bypass VPN. Note that the system doesn't update the allowlist when packages are installed or uninstalled, the admin app must call this method to keep the list up to date. When lockdownEnabled is false lockdownAllowlist is ignored . When lockdownEnabled is true and lockdownAllowlist is null or empty, only system apps can bypass VPN. Setting always-on VPN package to null or using setAlwaysOnVpnPackage(android.content.ComponentName, java.lang.String, boolean) clears lockdown allowlist. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | |if | |if | setApplicationHidden public boolean setApplicationHidden (ComponentName admin, String packageName, boolean hidden) Hide or unhide packages. When a package is hidden it is unavailable for use, but the data and actual package file remain. This function can be called by a device owner, profile owner, or by a delegate given the DELEGATION_PACKAGE_ACCESS scope via setDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String, List. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance, returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName), where the caller must be the profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile and the package must be a system package. If called on the parent instance, then the package is hidden or unhidden in the personal profile. |Parameters| |Returns| |boolean Whether the hidden setting of the package was successfully updated.| |Throws| |if | |if called on the parent profile and the package provided is not a system package.| setApplicationRestrictions public void setApplicationRestrictions (ComponentName admin, String packageName, Bundle settings) Sets the application restrictions for a given target application running in the calling user. The caller must be a profile or device owner on that user, or the package allowed to manage application restrictions via setDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String, List with the DELEGATION_APP_RESTRICTIONS scope; otherwise a security exception will be thrown. The provided Bundle consists of key-value pairs, where the types of values may be: boolean int Stringor String[] - From Build.VERSION_CODES.M, Bundleor Bundle[] If the restrictions are not available yet, but may be applied in the near future, the caller can notify the target application of that by adding UserManager#KEY_RESTRICTIONS_PENDING to the settings parameter. The application restrictions are only made visible to the target application via UserManager#getApplicationRestrictions(String), in addition to the profile or device owner, and the application restrictions managing package via getApplicationRestrictions(ComponentName, String). NOTE: The method performs disk I/O and shouldn't be called on the main thread This method may take several seconds to complete, so it should only be called from a worker thread. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setApplicationRestrictionsManagingPackage public void setApplicationRestrictionsManagingPackage (ComponentName admin, String packageName) This method was deprecated in API level 26. From Build.VERSION_CODES.O. Use setDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String, List with the DELEGATION_APP_RESTRICTIONS scope instead. Called by a profile owner or device owner to grant permission to a package to manage application restrictions for the calling user via setApplicationRestrictions(ComponentName, String, Bundle) and getApplicationRestrictions(ComponentName, String). This permission is persistent until it is later cleared by calling this method with a null value or uninstalling the managing package. The supplied application restriction managing package must be installed when calling this API, otherwise an NameNotFoundException will be thrown. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | |if | setAutoTimeEnabled public void setAutoTimeEnabled (ComponentName admin, boolean enabled) Called by a device owner, a profile owner for the primary user or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to turn auto time on and off. Callers are recommended to use UserManager#DISALLOW_CONFIG_DATE_TIME to prevent the user from changing this setting. If user restriction UserManager#DISALLOW_CONFIG_DATE_TIME is used, no user will be able set the date and time. Instead, the network date and time will be used. |Parameters| |Throws| |if caller is not a device owner, a profile owner for the primary user, or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile.| setAutoTimeRequired public void setAutoTimeRequired (ComponentName admin, boolean required) This method was deprecated in API level 30. From Build.VERSION_CODES.R. Use setAutoTimeEnabled(ComponentName, boolean) to turn auto time on or off and use UserManager#DISALLOW_CONFIG_DATE_TIME to prevent the user from changing this setting. Called by a device owner, or alternatively a profile owner from Android 8.0 (API level 26) or higher, to set whether auto time is required. If auto time is required, no user will be able set the date and time and network date and time will be used. Note: if auto time is required the user can still manually set the time zone. The calling device admin must be a device owner, or alternatively a profile owner from Android 8.0 (API level 26) or higher. If it is not, a security exception will be thrown. Staring from Android 11, this API switches to use UserManager#DISALLOW_CONFIG_DATE_TIME to enforce the auto time settings. Calling this API to enforce auto time will result in UserManager#DISALLOW_CONFIG_DATE_TIME being set, while calling this API to lift the requirement will result in UserManager#DISALLOW_CONFIG_DATE_TIME being cleared. From Android 11, this API can also no longer be called on a managed profile. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setAutoTimeZoneEnabled public void setAutoTimeZoneEnabled (ComponentName admin, boolean enabled) Called by a device owner, a profile owner for the primary user or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to turn auto time zone on and off. Callers are recommended to use UserManager#DISALLOW_CONFIG_DATE_TIME to prevent the user from changing this setting. If user restriction UserManager#DISALLOW_CONFIG_DATE_TIME is used, no user will be able set the date and time zone. Instead, the network date and time zone will be used. |Parameters| |Throws| |if caller is not a device owner, a profile owner for the primary user, or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile.| setBackupServiceEnabled public void setBackupServiceEnabled (ComponentName admin, boolean enabled) Allows the device owner or profile owner to enable or disable the backup service. Each user has its own backup service which manages the backup and restore mechanisms in that user. Disabling the backup service will prevent data from being backed up or restored. Device owner calls this API to control backup services across all users on the device. Profile owner can use this API to enable or disable the profile's backup service. However, for a managed profile its backup functionality is only enabled if both the device owner and the profile owner have enabled the backup service. By default, backup service is disabled on a device with device owner, and within a managed profile. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setBluetoothContactSharingDisabled public void setBluetoothContactSharingDisabled (ComponentName admin, boolean disabled) Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to set whether bluetooth devices can access enterprise contacts. The calling device admin must be a profile owner. If it is not, a security exception will be thrown. This API works on managed profile only. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setCameraDisabled public void setCameraDisabled (ComponentName admin, boolean disabled) Called by an application that is administering the device to disable all cameras on the device, for this user. After setting this, no applications running as this user will be able to access any cameras on the device. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance, returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName), where the caller must be the profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile. If the caller is device owner, then the restriction will be applied to all users. If called on the parent instance, then the restriction will be applied on the personal profile. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_DISABLE_CAMERA to be able to call this method; if it has not, a security exception will be thrown. Note, this policy type is deprecated for legacy device admins since Build.VERSION_CODES.Q. On Android Build.VERSION_CODES.Q devices, legacy device admins targeting SDK version Build.VERSION_CODES.P or below can still call this API to disable camera, while legacy device admins targeting SDK version Build.VERSION_CODES.Q will receive a SecurityException. Starting from Android Build.VERSION_CODES.R, requests to disable camera from legacy device admins targeting SDK version Build.VERSION_CODES.P or below will be silently ignored. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setCertInstallerPackage public void setCertInstallerPackage (ComponentName admin, String installerPackage) This method was deprecated in API level 26. From Build.VERSION_CODES.O. Use setDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String, List with the DELEGATION_CERT_INSTALL scope instead. Called by a profile owner or device owner to grant access to privileged certificate manipulation APIs to a third-party certificate installer app. Granted APIs include getInstalledCaCerts(ComponentName), hasCaCertInstalled(ComponentName, byte[]), installCaCert(ComponentName, byte[]), uninstallCaCert(ComponentName, byte[]), uninstallAllUserCaCerts(ComponentName) and installKeyPair(ComponentName, PrivateKey, Certificate, String). Delegated certificate installer is a per-user state. The delegated access is persistent until it is later cleared by calling this method with a null value or uninstallling the certificate installer. Note:Starting from Build.VERSION_CODES.N, if the caller application's target SDK version is Build.VERSION_CODES.N or newer, the supplied certificate installer package must be installed when calling this API, otherwise an IllegalArgumentException will be thrown. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setCommonCriteriaModeEnabled public void setCommonCriteriaModeEnabled (ComponentName admin, boolean enabled) Called by device owner or profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to toggle Common Criteria mode for the device. When the device is in Common Criteria mode, certain device functionalities are tuned to meet the higher security level required by Common Criteria certification. For example: - Bluetooth long term key material is additionally integrity-protected with AES-GCM. - WiFi configuration store is additionally integrity-protected with AES-GCM. Note: if Common Critera mode is turned off after being enabled previously, all existing WiFi configurations will be lost. |Parameters| setConfiguredNetworksLockdownState public void setConfiguredNetworksLockdownState (ComponentName admin, boolean lockdown) Called by a device owner or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to control whether the user can change networks configured by the admin. WiFi network configuration lockdown is controlled by a global settings Settings.Global.WIFI_DEVICE_OWNER_CONFIGS_LOCKDOWN and calling this API effectively modifies the global settings. Previously device owners can also control this directly via setGlobalSetting(ComponentName, String, String) but they are recommended to switch to this API. |Parameters| |Throws| |if caller is not a device owner or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile.| setCrossProfileCalendarPackages public void setCrossProfileCalendarPackages (ComponentName admin, Set<String> packageNames) Allows a set of packages to access cross-profile calendar APIs. Called by a profile owner of a managed profile. Calling with a null value for the set disables the restriction so that all packages are allowed to access cross-profile calendar APIs. Calling with an empty set disallows all packages from accessing cross-profile calendar APIs. If this method isn't called, no package is allowed to access cross-profile calendar APIs by default. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setCrossProfileCallerIdDisabled public void setCrossProfileCallerIdDisabled (ComponentName admin, boolean disabled) Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to set whether caller-Id information from the managed profile will be shown in the parent profile, for incoming calls. The calling device admin must be a profile owner. If it is not, a security exception will be thrown. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setCrossProfileContactsSearchDisabled public void setCrossProfileContactsSearchDisabled (ComponentName admin, boolean disabled) Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to set whether contacts search from the managed profile will be shown in the parent profile, for incoming calls. The calling device admin must be a profile owner. If it is not, a security exception will be thrown. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setCrossProfilePackages public void setCrossProfilePackages (ComponentName admin, Set<String> packageNames) Sets the set of admin-allowlisted package names that are allowed to request user consent for cross-profile communication. Assumes that the caller is a profile owner and is the given admin. Previous calls are overridden by each subsequent call to this method. Note that other apps may be able to request user consent for cross-profile communication if they have been explicitly allowlisted by the OEM. When previously-set cross-profile packages are missing from packageNames, the app-op for INTERACT_ACROSS_PROFILES will be reset for those packages. This will not occur for packages that are allowlisted by the OEM. |Parameters| setDefaultSmsApplication public void setDefaultSmsApplication (ComponentName admin, String packageName) Must be called by a device owner or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to set the default SMS application. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance, returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName), where the caller must be the profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile and the package must be a pre-installed system package. If called on the parent instance, then the default SMS application is set on the personal profile. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | |if called on the parent profile and the package provided is not a pre-installed system package.| setDelegatedScopes public void setDelegatedScopes (ComponentName admin, String delegatePackage, List<String> scopes) Called by a profile owner or device owner to grant access to privileged APIs to another app. Granted APIs are determined by scopes, which is a list of the DELEGATION_* constants. A broadcast with the ACTION_APPLICATION_DELEGATION_SCOPES_CHANGED action will be sent to the delegatePackage with its new scopes in an ArrayList<String> extra under the EXTRA_DELEGATION_SCOPES key. The broadcast is sent with the Intent#FLAG_RECEIVER_REGISTERED_ONLY flag. Delegated scopes are a per-user state. The delegated access is persistent until it is later cleared by calling this method with an empty scopes list or uninstalling the delegatePackage. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setDeviceOwnerLockScreenInfo public void setDeviceOwnerLockScreenInfo (ComponentName admin, CharSequence info) Sets the device owner information to be shown on the lock screen. Device owner information set using this method overrides any owner information manually set by the user and prevents the user from further changing it. If the device owner information is null or empty then the device owner info is cleared and the user owner info is shown on the lock screen if it is set. If the device owner information contains only whitespaces then the message on the lock screen will be blank and the user will not be allowed to change it. If the device owner information needs to be localized, it is the responsibility of the DeviceAdminReceiver to listen to the Intent#ACTION_LOCALE_CHANGED broadcast and set a new version of this string accordingly. May be called by the device owner or the profile owner of an organization-owned device. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setEndUserSessionMessage public void setEndUserSessionMessage (ComponentName admin, CharSequence endUserSessionMessage) Called by a device owner to specify the user session end message. This may be displayed during a user switch. The message should be limited to a short statement or it may be truncated. If the message needs to be localized, it is the responsibility of the DeviceAdminReceiver to listen to the Intent#ACTION_LOCALE_CHANGED broadcast and set a new version of this message accordingly. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setFactoryResetProtectionPolicy public void setFactoryResetProtectionPolicy (ComponentName admin, FactoryResetProtectionPolicy policy) Callable by device owner or profile owner of an organization-owned device, to set a factory reset protection (FRP) policy. When a new policy is set, the system notifies the FRP management agent of a policy change by broadcasting ACTION_RESET_PROTECTION_POLICY_CHANGED. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | |if factory reset protection is not supported on the device.| setGlobalPrivateDnsModeOpportunistic public int setGlobalPrivateDnsModeOpportunistic (ComponentName admin) Sets the global Private DNS mode to opportunistic. May only be called by the device owner. In this mode, the DNS subsystem will attempt a TLS handshake to the network-supplied resolver prior to attempting name resolution in cleartext. Note: The device owner won't be able to set the global private DNS mode if there are unaffiliated secondary users or profiles on the device. It's recommended that affiliation ids are set for new users as soon as possible after provisioning via setAffiliationIds(ComponentName, Set. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if the caller is not the device owner.| setGlobalPrivateDnsModeSpecifiedHost public int setGlobalPrivateDnsModeSpecifiedHost (ComponentName admin, String privateDnsHost) Sets the global Private DNS host to be used. May only be called by the device owner. Note that the method is blocking as it will perform a connectivity check to the resolver, to ensure it is valid. Because of that, the method should not be called on any thread that relates to user interaction, such as the UI thread. In case a VPN is used in conjunction with Private DNS resolver, the Private DNS resolver must be reachable both from within and outside the VPN. Otherwise, the device may lose the ability to resolve hostnames as system traffic to the resolver may not go through the VPN. Note: The device owner won't be able to set the global private DNS mode if there are unaffiliated secondary users or profiles on the device. It's recommended that affiliation ids are set for new users as soon as possible after provisioning via setAffiliationIds(ComponentName, Set. This method may take several seconds to complete, so it should only be called from a worker thread. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if the | |if the caller is not the device owner.| setGlobalSetting public void setGlobalSetting (ComponentName admin, String setting, String value) This method is mostly deprecated. Most of the settings that still have an effect have dedicated setter methods or user restrictions. See individual settings for details. Called by device owner to update Settings.Global settings. Validation that the value of the setting is in the correct form for the setting type should be performed by the caller. The settings that can be updated with this method are: Settings.Global.ADB_ENABLED: use UserManager#DISALLOW_DEBUGGING_FEATURESinstead to restrict users from enabling debugging features and this setting to turn adb on. Settings.Global.USB_MASS_STORAGE_ENABLED Settings.Global.STAY_ON_WHILE_PLUGGED_INThis setting is only available from Build.VERSION_CODES.Monwards and can only be set if setMaximumTimeToLock(ComponentName, long)is not used to set a timeout. - This setting is only available from Settings.Global.WIFI_DEVICE_OWNER_CONFIGS_LOCKDOWN Build.VERSION_CODES.Monwards. The following settings used to be supported, but can be controlled in other ways: Settings.Global.AUTO_TIME: Use setAutoTimeEnabled(ComponentName, boolean)and UserManager#DISALLOW_CONFIG_DATE_TIMEinstead. Settings.Global.AUTO_TIME_ZONE: Use setAutoTimeZoneEnabled(ComponentName, boolean)and UserManager#DISALLOW_CONFIG_DATE_TIMEinstead. Settings.Global.DATA_ROAMING: Use UserManager#DISALLOW_DATA_ROAMINGinstead. Changing the following settings has no effect as of Build.VERSION_CODES.M: Settings.Global.BLUETOOTH_ON. Use BluetoothAdapter.enable()and BluetoothAdapter.disable()instead. Settings.Global.DEVELOPMENT_SETTINGS_ENABLED Settings.Global.MODE_RINGER. Use AudioManager.setRingerMode(int)instead. Settings.Global.NETWORK_PREFERENCE Settings.Global.WIFI_ON. Use WifiManager.setWifiEnabled(boolean)instead. Settings.Global.WIFI_SLEEP_POLICY. No longer has effect. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setKeepUninstalledPackages public void setKeepUninstalledPackages (ComponentName admin, List<String> packageNames) Set a list of apps to keep around as APKs even if no user has currently installed it. This function can be called by a device owner or by a delegate given the DELEGATION_KEEP_UNINSTALLED_PACKAGES scope via setDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String, List. Please note that setting this policy does not imply that specified apps will be automatically pre-cached. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setKeyPairCertificate public boolean setKeyPairCertificate (ComponentName admin, String alias, List<Certificate> certs, boolean isUserSelectable) This API can be called by the following to associate certificates with a key pair that was generated using generateKeyPair(ComponentName, String, KeyGenParameterSpec, int), and set whether the key is available for the user to choose in the certificate selection prompt: - Device owner - Profile owner - Delegated certificate installer - Credential management app From Android Build.VERSION_CODES.S, the credential management app can call this API. If called by the credential management app, the componentName must be null. Note, there can only be a credential management app on an unmanaged device. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | setKeyguardDisabled public boolean setKeyguardDisabled (ComponentName admin, boolean disabled) Called by a device owner or profile owner of secondary users that is affiliated with the device to disable the keyguard altogether. Setting the keyguard to disabled has the same effect as choosing "None" as the screen lock type. However, this call has no effect if a password, pin or pattern is currently set. If a password, pin or pattern is set after the keyguard was disabled, the keyguard stops being disabled. As of Build.VERSION_CODES.P, this call also dismisses the keyguard if it is currently shown. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | setKeyguardDisabledFeatures public void setKeyguardDisabledFeatures (ComponentName admin, int which) Called by an application that is administering the device to disable keyguard customizations, such as widgets. After setting this, keyguard features will be disabled according to the provided feature list. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_DISABLE_KEYGUARD_FEATURES to be able to call this method; if it has not, a security exception will be thrown. Calling this from a managed profile before version Build.VERSION_CODES.M will throw a security exception. From version Build.VERSION_CODES.M the profile owner of a managed profile can set: KEYGUARD_DISABLE_TRUST_AGENTS, which affects the parent user, but only if there is no separate challenge set on the managed profile. KEYGUARD_DISABLE_FINGERPRINT, KEYGUARD_DISABLE_FACEor KEYGUARD_DISABLE_IRISwhich affects the managed profile challenge if there is one, or the parent user otherwise. KEYGUARD_DISABLE_UNREDACTED_NOTIFICATIONSwhich affects notifications generated by applications in the managed profile. From version Build.VERSION_CODES.R the profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile can set: KEYGUARD_DISABLE_SECURE_CAMERAwhich affects the parent user when called on the parent profile. KEYGUARD_DISABLE_SECURE_NOTIFICATIONSwhich affects the parent user when called on the parent profile. KEYGUARD_DISABLE_TRUST_AGENTS, KEYGUARD_DISABLE_FINGERPRINT, KEYGUARD_DISABLE_FACE, KEYGUARD_DISABLE_IRIS, KEYGUARD_DISABLE_SECURE_CAMERAand KEYGUARD_DISABLE_SECURE_NOTIFICATIONScan also be set on the DevicePolicyManagerinstance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName)in order to set restrictions on the parent profile. KEYGUARD_DISABLE_SECURE_CAMERAcan only be set on the parent profile instance if the calling device admin is the profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile. Requests to disable other features on a managed profile will be ignored. The admin can check which features have been disabled by calling getKeyguardDisabledFeatures(android.content.ComponentName) |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setLocationEnabled public void setLocationEnabled (ComponentName admin, boolean locationEnabled) Called by device owners to set the user's global location setting. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setLockTaskFeatures public void setLockTaskFeatures (ComponentName admin, int flags) Sets which system features are enabled when the device runs in lock task mode. This method doesn't affect the features when lock task mode is inactive. Any system features not included in flags are implicitly disabled when calling this method. By default, only LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_GLOBAL_ACTIONS is enabled; all the other features are disabled. To disable the global actions dialog, call this method omitting LOCK_TASK_FEATURE_GLOBAL_ACTIONS. This method can only be called by the device owner, a profile owner of an affiliated user or profile, or the profile owner when no device owner is set. See isAffiliatedUser(). Any features set using this method are cleared if the user becomes unaffiliated. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setLockTaskPackages public void setLockTaskPackages (ComponentName admin, String[] packages) Sets which packages may enter lock task mode. Any packages that share uid with an allowed package will also be allowed to activate lock task. From Build.VERSION_CODES.M removing packages from the lock task package list results in locked tasks belonging to those packages to be finished. This function can only be called by the device owner, a profile owner of an affiliated user or profile, or the profile owner when no device owner is set. See isAffiliatedUser(). Any package set via this method will be cleared if the user becomes unaffiliated. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | See also: isAffiliatedUser() Activity.startLockTask() DeviceAdminReceiver.onLockTaskModeEntering(Context, Intent, String) DeviceAdminReceiver.onLockTaskModeExiting(Context, Intent) UserManager.DISALLOW_CREATE_WINDOWS setLogoutEnabled public void setLogoutEnabled (ComponentName admin, boolean enabled) Called by a device owner to specify whether logout is enabled for all secondary users. The system may show a logout button that stops the user and switches back to the primary user. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setLongSupportMessage public void setLongSupportMessage (ComponentName admin, CharSequence message) Called by a device admin to set the long support message. This will be displayed to the user in the device administators settings screen. If the long support message needs to be localized, it is the responsibility of the DeviceAdminReceiver to listen to the Intent#ACTION_LOCALE_CHANGED broadcast and set a new version of this string accordingly. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setManagedProfileMaximumTimeOff public void setManagedProfileMaximumTimeOff (ComponentName admin, long timeoutMillis) Called by a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to set maximum time the profile is allowed to be turned off. If the profile is turned off for longer, personal apps are suspended on the device. When personal apps are suspended, an ongoing notification about that is shown to the user. When the user taps the notification, system invokes ACTION_CHECK_POLICY_COMPLIANCE in the profile owner package. Profile owner implementation that uses personal apps suspension must handle this intent. |Parameters| |Throws| |if the profile owner doesn't have an activity that handles | setMasterVolumeMuted public void setMasterVolumeMuted (ComponentName admin, boolean on) Called by profile or device owners to set the global volume mute on or off. This has no effect when set on a managed profile. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setMaximumFailedPasswordsForWipe public void setMaximumFailedPasswordsForWipe (ComponentName admin, int num) Setting this to a value greater than zero enables a built-in policy that will perform a device or profile wipe after too many incorrect device-unlock passwords have been entered. This built-in policy combines watching for failed passwords and wiping the device, and requires that you request both DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_WATCH_LOGIN and DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_WIPE_DATA}. When this policy is set by a device owner, profile owner of an organization-owned device or an admin on the primary user, the device will be factory reset after too many incorrect password attempts. When set by a profile owner or an admin on a secondary user or a managed profile, only the corresponding user or profile will be wiped. To implement any other policy (e.g. wiping data for a particular application only, erasing or revoking credentials, or reporting the failure to a server), you should implement DeviceAdminReceiver#onPasswordFailed(Context, android.content.Intent) instead. Do not use this API, because if the maximum count is reached, the device or profile will be wiped immediately, and your callback will not be invoked. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to set a value on the parent profile. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always empty and this method has no effect - i.e. the policy is not set. Requires the PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature which can be detected using PackageManager.hasSystemFeature(String). |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setMaximumTimeToLock public void setMaximumTimeToLock (ComponentName admin, long timeMs) Called by an application that is administering the device to set the maximum time for user activity until the device will lock. This limits the length that the user can set. It takes effect immediately. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_FORCE_LOCK to be able to call this method; if it has not, a security exception will be thrown. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to set restrictions on the parent profile. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setMeteredDataDisabledPackages public List<String> setMeteredDataDisabledPackages (ComponentName admin, List<String> packageNames) Called by a device or profile owner to restrict packages from using metered data. |Parameters| |Returns| |a list of package names which could not be restricted. This value cannot be | |Throws| |if | setNearbyAppStreamingPolicy public void setNearbyAppStreamingPolicy (int policy) Called by a device/profile owner to set nearby app streaming policy. App streaming is when the device starts an app on a virtual display and sends a video stream of the app to nearby devices. |Parameters| |Throws| |if caller is not a device or profile owner.| setNearbyNotificationStreamingPolicy public void setNearbyNotificationStreamingPolicy (int policy) Called by a device/profile owner to set nearby notification streaming policy. Notification streaming is sending notification data from pre-installed apps to nearby devices. |Parameters| |Throws| |if caller is not a device or profile owner| setNetworkLoggingEnabled public void setNetworkLoggingEnabled (ComponentName admin, boolean enabled) Called by a device owner, profile owner of a managed profile or delegated app with DELEGATION_NETWORK_LOGGING to control the network logging feature. When network logging is enabled by a profile owner, the network logs will only include work profile network activity, not activity on the personal profile. Network logs contain DNS lookup and connect() library call events. The following library functions are recorded while network logging is active: getaddrinfo() gethostbyname() connect() Network logging is a low-overhead tool for forensics but it is not guaranteed to use full system call logging; event reporting is enabled by default for all processes but not strongly enforced. Events from applications using alternative implementations of libc, making direct kernel calls, or deliberately obfuscating traffic may not be recorded. Some common network events may not be reported. For example: - Applications may hardcode IP addresses to reduce the number of DNS lookups, or use an alternative system for name resolution, and so avoid calling getaddrinfo()or gethostbyname. - Applications may use datagram sockets for performance reasons, for example for a game client. Calling connect()is unnecessary for this kind of socket, so it will not trigger a network event. It is possible to directly intercept layer 3 traffic leaving the device using an always-on VPN service. See setAlwaysOnVpnPackage(android.content.ComponentName, java.lang.String, boolean) and VpnService for details. Note: The device owner won't be able to retrieve network logs if there are unaffiliated secondary users or profiles on the device, regardless of whether the feature is enabled. Logs will be discarded if the internal buffer fills up while waiting for all users to become affiliated. Therefore it's recommended that affiliation ids are set for new users as soon as possible after provisioning via setAffiliationIds(ComponentName, Set. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setOrganizationColor public void setOrganizationColor (ComponentName admin, int color) This method was deprecated in API level 31. From Build.VERSION_CODES.R, the organization color is never used as the background color of the confirm credentials screen. Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to set the color used for customization. This color is used as background color of the confirm credentials screen for that user. The default color is teal (#00796B). The confirm credentials screen can be created using KeyguardManager.createConfirmDeviceCredentialIntent(CharSequence, CharSequence). Starting from Android R, the organization color will no longer be used as the background color of the confirm credentials screen. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setOrganizationId public void setOrganizationId (String enterpriseId) Sets the Enterprise ID for the work profile or managed device. This is a requirement for generating an enrollment-specific ID for the device, see getEnrollmentSpecificId(). It is recommended that the Enterprise ID is at least 6 characters long, and no more than 64 characters. |Parameters| setOrganizationName public void setOrganizationName (ComponentName admin, CharSequence title) Called by the device owner (since API 26) or profile owner (since API 24) to set the name of the organization under management. If the organization name needs to be localized, it is the responsibility of the DeviceAdminReceiver to listen to the Intent#ACTION_LOCALE_CHANGED broadcast and set a new version of this string accordingly. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setOverrideApnsEnabled public void setOverrideApnsEnabled (ComponentName admin, boolean enabled) Called by device owner to set if override APNs should be enabled. Override APNs are separated from other APNs on the device, and can only be inserted or modified by the device owner. When enabled, only override APNs are in use, any other APNs are ignored. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setPackagesSuspended public String[] setPackagesSuspended (ComponentName admin, String[] packageNames, boolean suspended) Called by device or profile owners to suspend packages for this user. This function can be called by a device owner, profile owner, or by a delegate given the DELEGATION_PACKAGE_ACCESS scope via setDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String, List. A suspended package will not be able to start activities. Its notifications will be hidden, it will not show up in recents, will not be able to show toasts or dialogs or ring the device. The package must already be installed. If the package is uninstalled while suspended the package will no longer be suspended. The admin can block this by using setUninstallBlocked(ComponentName, String, boolean). Some apps cannot be suspended, such as device admins, the active launcher, the required package installer, the required package uninstaller, the required package verifier, the default dialer, and the permission controller. |Parameters| |Returns| |an array of package names for which the suspended status is not set as requested in this method. This value cannot be | |Throws| |if | setPasswordExpirationTimeout public void setPasswordExpirationTimeout (ComponentName admin, long timeout) Called by a device admin to set the password expiration timeout. Calling this method will restart the countdown for password expiration for the given admin, as will changing the device password (for all admins). The provided timeout is the time delta in ms and will be added to the current time. For example, to have the password expire 5 days from now, timeout would be 5 * 86400 * 1000 = 432000000 ms for timeout. To disable password expiration, a value of 0 may be used for timeout. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password expiration is always disabled. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_EXPIRE_PASSWORD to be able to call this method; if it has not, a security exception will be thrown. Note that setting the password will automatically reset the expiration time for all active admins. Active admins do not need to explicitly call this method in that case. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to set restrictions on the parent profile. Requires the PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature which can be detected using PackageManager.hasSystemFeature(String). |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setPasswordHistoryLength public void setPasswordHistoryLength (ComponentName admin, int length) Called by an application that is administering the device to set the length of the password history. After setting this, the user will not be able to enter a new password that is the same as any password in the history. Note that the current password will remain until the user has set a new one, so the change does not take place immediately. To prompt the user for a new password, use ACTION_SET_NEW_PASSWORD or ACTION_SET_NEW_PARENT_PROFILE_PASSWORD after setting this value. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password history length is always 0. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_LIMIT_PASSWORD to be able to call this method; if it has not, a security exception will be thrown. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to set restrictions on the parent profile. Requires the PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature which can be detected using PackageManager.hasSystemFeature(String). |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setPasswordMinimumLength public void setPasswordMinimumLength (ComponentName admin, int length) This method was deprecated in API level 31. see setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int) for details. Called by an application that is administering the device to set the minimum allowed password length. After setting this, the user will not be able to enter a new password that is not at least as restrictive as what has been set. Note that the current password will remain until the user has set a new one, so the change does not take place immediately. To prompt the user for a new password, use ACTION_SET_NEW_PASSWORD or ACTION_SET_NEW_PARENT_PROFILE_PASSWORD after setting this value. This constraint is only imposed if the administrator has also requested either PASSWORD_QUALITY_NUMERIC , PASSWORD_QUALITY_NUMERIC_COMPLEX, PASSWORD_QUALITY_ALPHABETIC, PASSWORD_QUALITY_ALPHANUMERIC, or PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX with setPasswordQuality(ComponentName, int). If an app targeting SDK level Build.VERSION_CODES.R and above enforces this constraint without settings password quality to one of these values first, this method will throw IllegalStateException. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always treated as empty. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_LIMIT_PASSWORD to be able to call this method; if it has not, a security exception will be thrown. Apps targeting Build.VERSION_CODES.R and below can call this method on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to set restrictions on the parent profile. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | |if the calling app is targeting SDK level | setPasswordMinimumLetters public void setPasswordMinimumLetters (ComponentName admin, int length) This method was deprecated in API level 31. see setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int) for details. Called by an application that is administering the device to set the minimum number of letters required in the password. After setting this, the user will not be able to enter a new password that is not at least as restrictive as what has been set. Note that the current password will remain until the user has set a new one, so the change does not take place immediately. To prompt the user for a new password, use ACTION_SET_NEW_PASSWORD or ACTION_SET_NEW_PARENT_PROFILE_PASSWORD after setting this value. This constraint is only imposed if the administrator has also requested PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX with setPasswordQuality(ComponentName, int). If an app targeting SDK level Build.VERSION_CODES.R and above enforces this constraint without settings password quality to PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX first, this method will throw IllegalStateException. The default value is 1. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always treated as empty. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_LIMIT_PASSWORD to be able to call this method; if it has not, a security exception will be thrown. Apps targeting Build.VERSION_CODES.R and below can call this method on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to set restrictions on the parent profile. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | |if the calling app is targeting SDK level | setPasswordMinimumLowerCase public void setPasswordMinimumLowerCase (ComponentName admin, int length) This method was deprecated in API level 31. see setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int) for details. Called by an application that is administering the device to set the minimum number of lower case letters required in the password. After setting this, the user will not be able to enter a new password that is not at least as restrictive as what has been set. Note that the current password will remain until the user has set a new one, so the change does not take place immediately. To prompt the user for a new password, use ACTION_SET_NEW_PASSWORD or ACTION_SET_NEW_PARENT_PROFILE_PASSWORD after setting this value. This constraint is only imposed if the administrator has also requested PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX with setPasswordQuality(ComponentName, int). If an app targeting SDK level Build.VERSION_CODES.R and above enforces this constraint without settings password quality to PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX first, this method will throw IllegalStateException. The default value is 0. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always treated as empty. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_LIMIT_PASSWORD to be able to call this method; if it has not, a security exception will be thrown. Apps targeting Build.VERSION_CODES.R and below can call this method on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to set restrictions on the parent profile. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | |if the calling app is targeting SDK level | setPasswordMinimumNonLetter public void setPasswordMinimumNonLetter (ComponentName admin, int length) This method was deprecated in API level 31. see setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int) for details. Called by an application that is administering the device to set the minimum number of non-letter characters (numerical digits or symbols) required in the password. After setting this, the user will not be able to enter a new password that is not at least as restrictive as what has been set. Note that the current password will remain until the user has set a new one, so the change does not take place immediately. To prompt the user for a new password, use ACTION_SET_NEW_PASSWORD or ACTION_SET_NEW_PARENT_PROFILE_PASSWORD after setting this value. This constraint is only imposed if the administrator has also requested PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX with setPasswordQuality(ComponentName, int). If an app targeting SDK level Build.VERSION_CODES.R and above enforces this constraint without settings password quality to PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX first, this method will throw IllegalStateException. The default value is 0. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always treated as empty. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_LIMIT_PASSWORD to be able to call this method; if it has not, a security exception will be thrown. Apps targeting Build.VERSION_CODES.R and below can call this method on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to set restrictions on the parent profile. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | |if the calling app is targeting SDK level | setPasswordMinimumNumeric public void setPasswordMinimumNumeric (ComponentName admin, int length) This method was deprecated in API level 31. see setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int) for details. Called by an application that is administering the device to set the minimum number of numerical digits required in the password. After setting this, the user will not be able to enter a new password that is not at least as restrictive as what has been set. Note that the current password will remain until the user has set a new one, so the change does not take place immediately. To prompt the user for a new password, use ACTION_SET_NEW_PASSWORD or ACTION_SET_NEW_PARENT_PROFILE_PASSWORD after setting this value. This constraint is only imposed if the administrator has also requested PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX with setPasswordQuality(ComponentName, int). If an app targeting SDK level Build.VERSION_CODES.R and above enforces this constraint without settings password quality to PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX first, this method will throw IllegalStateException. The default value is 1. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always treated as empty. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_LIMIT_PASSWORD to be able to call this method; if it has not, a security exception will be thrown. Apps targeting Build.VERSION_CODES.R and below can call this method on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to set restrictions on the parent profile. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | |if the calling app is targeting SDK level | setPasswordMinimumSymbols public void setPasswordMinimumSymbols (ComponentName admin, int length) This method was deprecated in API level 31. see setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int) for details. Called by an application that is administering the device to set the minimum number of symbols required in the password. After setting this, the user will not be able to enter a new password that is not at least as restrictive as what has been set. Note that the current password will remain until the user has set a new one, so the change does not take place immediately. To prompt the user for a new password, use ACTION_SET_NEW_PASSWORD or ACTION_SET_NEW_PARENT_PROFILE_PASSWORD after setting this value. This constraint is only imposed if the administrator has also requested PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX with setPasswordQuality(ComponentName, int). If an app targeting SDK level Build.VERSION_CODES.R and above enforces this constraint without settings password quality to PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX first, this method will throw IllegalStateException. The default value is 1. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always treated as empty. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_LIMIT_PASSWORD to be able to call this method; if it has not, a security exception will be thrown. Apps targeting Build.VERSION_CODES.R and below can call this method on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to set restrictions on the parent profile. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | |if the calling app is targeting SDK level | setPasswordMinimumUpperCase public void setPasswordMinimumUpperCase (ComponentName admin, int length) This method was deprecated in API level 31. see setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int) for details. Called by an application that is administering the device to set the minimum number of upper case letters required in the password. After setting this, the user will not be able to enter a new password that is not at least as restrictive as what has been set. Note that the current password will remain until the user has set a new one, so the change does not take place immediately. To prompt the user for a new password, use ACTION_SET_NEW_PASSWORD or ACTION_SET_NEW_PARENT_PROFILE_PASSWORD after setting this value. This constraint is only imposed if the administrator has also requested PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX with setPasswordQuality(ComponentName, int). If an app targeting SDK level Build.VERSION_CODES.R and above enforces this constraint without settings password quality to PASSWORD_QUALITY_COMPLEX first, this method will throw IllegalStateException. The default value is 0. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always treated as empty. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_LIMIT_PASSWORD to be able to call this method; if it has not, a security exception will be thrown. Apps targeting Build.VERSION_CODES.R and below can call this method on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to set restrictions on the parent profile. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | |if the calling app is targeting SDK level | setPasswordQuality public void setPasswordQuality (ComponentName admin, int quality) This method was deprecated in API level 31. Prefer using setRequiredPasswordComplexity(int), to require a password that satisfies a complexity level defined by the platform, rather than specifying custom password requirement. Setting custom, overly-complicated password requirements leads to passwords that are hard for users to remember and may not provide any security benefits given as Android uses hardware-backed throttling to thwart online and offline brute-forcing of the device's screen lock. Company-owned devices (fully-managed and organization-owned managed profile devices) are able to continue using this method, though it is recommended that setRequiredPasswordComplexity(int) should be used instead. Called by an application that is administering the device to set the password restrictions it is imposing. After setting this, the user will not be able to enter a new password that is not at least as restrictive as what has been set. Note that the current password will remain until the user has set a new one, so the change does not take place immediately. To prompt the user for a new password, use ACTION_SET_NEW_PASSWORD or ACTION_SET_NEW_PARENT_PROFILE_PASSWORD after calling this method. Quality constants are ordered so that higher values are more restrictive; thus the highest requested quality constant (between the policy set here, the user's preference, and any other considerations) is the one that is in effect. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the password is always treated as empty. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_LIMIT_PASSWORD to be able to call this method; if it has not, a security exception will be thrown. Apps targeting Build.VERSION_CODES.R and below can call this method on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to set restrictions on the parent profile. Apps targeting Build.VERSION_CODES.S and above, with the exception of a profile owner on an organization-owned device (as can be identified by isOrganizationOwnedDeviceWithManagedProfile()), will get a IllegalArgumentException when calling this method on the parent DevicePolicyManager instance. Note: Specifying password requirements using this method clears the password complexity requirements set using setRequiredPasswordComplexity(int). If this method is called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName), then password complexity requirements set on the primary DevicePolicyManager must be cleared first by calling setRequiredPasswordComplexity(int) with {@link #PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_NONE) first. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | |if the caller is trying to set password quality on the parent | setPermissionGrantState public boolean setPermissionGrantState (ComponentName admin, String packageName, String permission, int grantState) Sets the grant state of a runtime permission for a specific application. The state can be default in which a user can manage it through the UI, denied, in which the permission is denied and the user cannot manage it through the UI, and granted in which the permission is granted and the user cannot manage it through the UI. This method can only be called by a profile owner, device owner, or a delegate given the DELEGATION_PERMISSION_GRANT scope via setDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String, List. defaultdoes not revoke the permission. It retains the previous grant, if any. Device admins with a targetSdkVersion< Build.VERSION_CODES.Qcannot grant and revoke permissions for applications built with a targetSdkVersion< Build.VERSION_CODES.M. Admins with a targetSdkVersion≥ Build.VERSION_CODES.Qcan grant and revoke permissions of all apps. Similar to the user revoking a permission from a application built with a targetSdkVersion< Build.VERSION_CODES.Mthe app-op matching the permission is set to AppOpsManager.MODE_IGNORED, but the permission stays granted. NOTE: On devices running Build.VERSION_CODES.S and above, control over the following, sensors-related, permissions is restricted: - Manifest.permission.ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION - Manifest.permission.ACCESS_BACKGROUND_LOCATION - Manifest.permission.ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION - Manifest.permission.CAMERA - Manifest.permission.RECORD_AUDIO - Manifest.permission.RECORD_BACKGROUND_AUDIO - Manifest.permission.ACTIVITY_RECOGNITION - Manifest.permission.BODY_SENSORS A profile owner may not grant these permissions (i.e. call this method with any of the permissions listed above and grantState of #PERMISSION_GRANT_STATE_GRANTED), but may deny them. A device owner, by default, may continue granting these permissions. However, for increased user control, the admin may opt out of controlling grants for these permissions by including EXTRA_PROVISIONING_SENSORS_PERMISSION_GRANT_OPT_OUT in the provisioning parameters. In that case the device owner's control will be limited do denying these permissions. NOTE: On devices running Build.VERSION_CODES.S and above, control over the following permissions are restricted for managed profile owners: - Manifest.permission.READ_SMS A managed profile owner may not grant these permissions (i.e. call this method with any of the permissions listed above and grantState of #PERMISSION_GRANT_STATE_GRANTED), but may deny them. Attempts by the admin to grant these permissions, when the admin is restricted from doing so, will be silently ignored (no exception will be thrown). |Parameters| |Returns| |whether the permission was successfully granted or revoked.| |Throws| |if | setPermissionPolicy public void setPermissionPolicy (ComponentName admin, int policy) Set the default response for future runtime permission requests by applications. This function can be called by a device owner, profile owner, or by a delegate given the DELEGATION_PERMISSION_GRANT scope via setDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String, List. The policy can allow for normal operation which prompts the user to grant a permission, or can allow automatic granting or denying of runtime permission requests by an application. This also applies to new permissions declared by app updates. When a permission is denied or granted this way, the effect is equivalent to setting the permission * grant state via setPermissionGrantState(ComponentName, String, String, int). targetSdkVersionof Build.VERSION_CODES.Mor later. NOTE: On devices running Build.VERSION_CODES.S and above, an auto-grant policy will not apply to certain sensors-related permissions on some configurations. See setPermissionGrantState(android.content.ComponentName, java.lang.String, java.lang.String, int) for the list of permissions affected, and the behavior change for managed profiles and fully-managed devices. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setPermittedAccessibilityServices public boolean setPermittedAccessibilityServices (ComponentName admin, List<String> packageNames) Called by a profile or device owner to set the permitted AccessibilityService. When set by a device owner or profile owner the restriction applies to all profiles of the user the device owner or profile owner is an admin for. By default, the user can use any accessibility service. When zero or more packages have been added, accessibility services that are not in the list and not part of the system can not be enabled by the user. Calling with a null value for the list disables the restriction so that all services can be used, calling with an empty list only allows the built-in system services. Any non-system accessibility service that's currently enabled must be included in the list. System accessibility services are always available to the user and this method can't disable them. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | setPermittedCrossProfileNotificationListeners public boolean setPermittedCrossProfileNotificationListeners (ComponentName admin, List<String> packageList) Called by a profile owner of a managed profile to set the packages that are allowed to use a NotificationListenerService in the primary user to see notifications from the managed profile. By default all packages are permitted by this policy. When zero or more packages have been added, notification listeners installed on the primary user that are not in the list and are not part of the system won't receive events for managed profile notifications. Calling with a null value for the list disables the restriction so that all notification listener services be used. Calling with an empty list disables all but the system's own notification listeners. System notification listener services are always available to the user. If a device or profile owner want to stop notification listeners in their user from seeing that user's notifications they should prevent that service from running instead (e.g. via setApplicationHidden(android.content.ComponentName, java.lang.String, boolean)) |Parameters| |Returns| |true if setting the restriction succeeded. It will fail if called outside a managed profile| |Throws| |if | setPermittedInputMethods public boolean setPermittedInputMethods (ComponentName admin, List<String> packageNames) Called by a profile or device owner to set the permitted input methods services for this user. By default, the user can use any input method. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance, returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName), where the caller must be a profile owner of an organization-owned device. If called on the parent instance: - The permitted input methods will be applied on the personal profile - Can only permit all input methods (calling this method with a nullpackage list) or only permit system input methods (calling this method with an empty package list). This is to prevent the caller from learning which packages are installed on the personal side When zero or more packages have been added, input method that are not in the list and not part of the system can not be enabled by the user. This method will fail if it is called for a admin that is not for the foreground user or a profile of the foreground user. Any non-system input method service that's currently enabled must be included in the list. Calling with a null value for the list disables the restriction so that all input methods can be used, calling with an empty list disables all but the system's own input methods. System input methods are always available to the user - this method can't modify this. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | |if called on the parent profile, the | setPersonalAppsSuspended public void setPersonalAppsSuspended (ComponentName admin, boolean suspended) Called by a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to suspend personal apps on the device. When personal apps are suspended the device can only be used for calls. When personal apps are suspended, an ongoing notification about that is shown to the user. When the user taps the notification, system invokes ACTION_CHECK_POLICY_COMPLIANCE in the profile owner package. Profile owner implementation that uses personal apps suspension must handle this intent. |Parameters| |Throws| |if the profile owner doesn't have an activity that handles | setPreferentialNetworkServiceEnabled public void setPreferentialNetworkServiceEnabled (boolean enabled) Sets whether preferential network service is enabled on the work profile. For example, an organization can have a deal/agreement with a carrier that all of the work data from its employees’ devices will be sent via a network service dedicated for enterprise use. An example of a supported preferential network service is the Enterprise slice on 5G networks. By default, preferential network service is disabled on the work profile on supported carriers and devices. Admins can explicitly enable it with this API. On fully-managed devices this method is unsupported because all traffic is considered work traffic. This method can only be called by the profile owner of a managed profile. |Parameters| |Throws| |if the caller is not the profile owner.| setProfileEnabled public void setProfileEnabled (ComponentName admin) Sets the enabled state of the profile. A profile should be enabled only once it is ready to be used. Only the profile owner can call this. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setProfileName public void setProfileName (ComponentName admin, String profileName) Sets the name of the profile. In the device owner case it sets the name of the user which it is called from. Only a profile owner or device owner can call this. If this is never called by the profile or device owner, the name will be set to default values. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setRecommendedGlobalProxy public void setRecommendedGlobalProxy (ComponentName admin, ProxyInfo proxyInfo) Set a network-independent global HTTP proxy. This is not normally what you want for typical HTTP proxies - they are generally network dependent. However if you're doing something unusual like general internal filtering this may be useful. On a private network where the proxy is not accessible, you may break HTTP using this. This method requires the caller to be the device owner. This proxy is only a recommendation and it is possible that some apps will ignore it. Note: The device owner won't be able to set a global HTTP proxy if there are unaffiliated secondary users or profiles on the device. It's recommended that affiliation ids are set for new users as soon as possible after provisioning via setAffiliationIds(ComponentName, Set. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setRequiredPasswordComplexity public void setRequiredPasswordComplexity (int passwordComplexity) Sets a minimum password complexity requirement for the user's screen lock. The complexity level is one of the pre-defined levels, and the user is unable to set a password with a lower complexity level. Note that when called on a profile which uses an unified challenge with its parent, the complexity would apply to the unified challenge. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to set restrictions on the parent profile. Note: Specifying password requirements using this method clears any password requirements set using the obsolete setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int) and any of its associated methods. Additionally, if there are password requirements set using the obsolete setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int) on the parent DevicePolicyManager instance, they must be cleared by calling setPasswordQuality(android.content.ComponentName, int) with PASSWORD_QUALITY_UNSPECIFIED on that instance prior to setting complexity requirement for the managed profile. |Parameters| |Throws| |if the calling application is not a device owner or a profile owner.| |if the complexity level is not one of the four above.| |if the caller is trying to set password complexity while there are password requirements specified using | setRequiredStrongAuthTimeout public void setRequiredStrongAuthTimeout (ComponentName admin, long timeoutMs) Called by a device/profile owner to set the timeout after which unlocking with secondary, non strong auth (e.g. fingerprint, face, trust agents) times out, i.e. the user has to use a strong authentication method like password, pin or pattern. This timeout is used internally to reset the timer to require strong auth again after specified timeout each time it has been successfully used. Fingerprint can also be disabled altogether using KEYGUARD_DISABLE_FINGERPRINT. Trust agents can also be disabled altogether using KEYGUARD_DISABLE_TRUST_AGENTS. The calling device admin must be a device or profile owner. If it is not, a SecurityException will be thrown. The calling device admin can verify the value it has set by calling getRequiredStrongAuthTimeout(android.content.ComponentName) and passing in its instance. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to set restrictions on the parent profile. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, calling this methods has no effect - i.e. the timeout is not set. Requires the PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature which can be detected using PackageManager.hasSystemFeature(String). |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setResetPasswordToken public boolean setResetPasswordToken (ComponentName admin, byte[] token) Called by a profile or device owner to provision a token which can later be used to reset the device lockscreen password (if called by device owner), or managed profile challenge (if called by profile owner), via resetPasswordWithToken(ComponentName, String, byte[], int). If the user currently has a lockscreen password, the provisioned token will not be immediately usable; it only becomes active after the user performs a confirm credential operation, which can be triggered by KeyguardManager#createConfirmDeviceCredentialIntent. If the user has no lockscreen password, the token is activated immediately. In all cases, the active state of the current token can be checked by isResetPasswordTokenActive(ComponentName). For security reasons, un-activated tokens are only stored in memory and will be lost once the device reboots. In this case a new token needs to be provisioned again. Once provisioned and activated, the token will remain effective even if the user changes or clears the lockscreen password. This token is highly sensitive and should be treated at the same level as user credentials. In particular, NEVER store this token on device in plaintext. Do not store the plaintext token in device-encrypted storage if it will be needed to reset password on file-based encryption devices before user unlocks. Consider carefully how any password token will be stored on your server and who will need access to them. Tokens may be the subject of legal access requests. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, the reset token is not set and this method returns false. Requires the PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature which can be detected using PackageManager.hasSystemFeature(String). |Parameters| |Returns| |true if the operation is successful, false otherwise.| |Throws| |if admin is not a device or profile owner.| |if the supplied token is invalid.| setRestrictionsProvider public void setRestrictionsProvider (ComponentName admin, ComponentName provider) Designates a specific service component as the provider for making permission requests of a local or remote administrator of the user.Only a device owner or profile owner can designate the restrictions provider. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setScreenCaptureDisabled public void setScreenCaptureDisabled (ComponentName admin, boolean disabled) Called by a device/profile owner to set whether the screen capture is disabled. Disabling screen capture also prevents the content from being shown on display devices that do not have a secure video output. See Display.FLAG_SECURE for more details about secure surfaces and secure displays. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance, returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName), where the calling device admin must be the profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile. If it is not, a security exception will be thrown. If the caller is device owner or called on the parent instance by a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile, then the restriction will be applied to all users. From version Build.VERSION_CODES.M disabling screen capture also blocks assist requests for all activities of the relevant user. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setSecureSetting public void setSecureSetting (ComponentName admin, String setting, String value) This method is mostly deprecated. Most of the settings that still have an effect have dedicated setter methods (e.g. setLocationEnabled(ComponentName, boolean)) or user restrictions. Called by profile or device owners to update Settings.Secure settings. Validation that the value of the setting is in the correct form for the setting type should be performed by the caller. The settings that can be updated by a profile or device owner with this method are: A device owner can additionally update the following settings: Settings.Secure.LOCATION_MODE, but see note below. Settings.Secure.INSTALL_NON_MARKET_APPS, which is deprecated. Instead, device owners or profile owners should use the restriction UserManager#DISALLOW_INSTALL_UNKNOWN_SOURCES. If any app targeting Build.VERSION_CODES.Oor higher calls this method with Settings.Secure.INSTALL_NON_MARKET_APPS, an UnsupportedOperationExceptionis thrown. Starting from Android Q, the device and profile owner can also call UserManager#DISALLOW_INSTALL_UNKNOWN_SOURCES_GLOBALLYto restrict unknown sources for all users. Note: Starting from Android R, apps should no longer call this method with the setting Settings.Secure.LOCATION_MODE, which is deprecated. Instead, device owners should call setLocationEnabled(android.content.ComponentName, boolean). This will be enforced for all apps targeting Android R or above. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setSecurityLoggingEnabled public void setSecurityLoggingEnabled (ComponentName admin, boolean enabled) Called by device owner or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to control the security logging feature. Security logs contain various information intended for security auditing purposes. When security logging is enabled by a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile, certain security logs are not visible (for example personal app launch events) or they will be redacted (for example, details of the physical volume mount events). Please see SecurityEvent for details. Note: The device owner won't be able to retrieve security logs if there are unaffiliated secondary users or profiles on the device, regardless of whether the feature is enabled. Logs will be discarded if the internal buffer fills up while waiting for all users to become affiliated. Therefore it's recommended that affiliation ids are set for new users as soon as possible after provisioning via setAffiliationIds(ComponentName, Set. Profile owner of organization-owned managed profile is not subject to this restriction since all privacy-sensitive events happening outside the managed profile would have been redacted already. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setShortSupportMessage public void setShortSupportMessage (ComponentName admin, CharSequence message) Called by a device admin to set the short support message. This will be displayed to the user in settings screens where funtionality has been disabled by the admin. The message should be limited to a short statement such as "This setting is disabled by your administrator. Contact someone@example.com for support." If the message is longer than 200 characters it may be truncated. If the short support message needs to be localized, it is the responsibility of the DeviceAdminReceiver to listen to the Intent#ACTION_LOCALE_CHANGED broadcast and set a new version of this string accordingly. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setStartUserSessionMessage public void setStartUserSessionMessage (ComponentName admin, CharSequence startUserSessionMessage) Called by a device owner to specify the user session start message. This may be displayed during a user switch. The message should be limited to a short statement or it may be truncated. If the message needs to be localized, it is the responsibility of the DeviceAdminReceiver to listen to the Intent#ACTION_LOCALE_CHANGED broadcast and set a new version of this message accordingly. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setStatusBarDisabled public boolean setStatusBarDisabled (ComponentName admin, boolean disabled) Called by device owner or profile owner of secondary users that is affiliated with the device to disable the status bar. Disabling the status bar blocks notifications and quick settings. Note: This method has no effect for LockTask mode. The behavior of the status bar in LockTask mode can be configured with setLockTaskFeatures(android.content.ComponentName, int). Calls to this method when the device is in LockTask mode will be registered, but will only take effect when the device leaves LockTask mode. This policy does not have any effect while on the lock screen, where the status bar will not be disabled. Using LockTask instead of this method is recommended. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | setStorageEncryption public int setStorageEncryption (ComponentName admin, boolean encrypt) This method was deprecated in API level 30. This method does not actually modify the storage encryption of the device. It has never affected the encryption status of a device. Called by an application that is administering the device to request that the storage system be encrypted. Does nothing if the caller is on a secondary user or a managed profile. When multiple device administrators attempt to control device encryption, the most secure, supported setting will always be used. If any device administrator requests device encryption, it will be enabled; Conversely, if a device administrator attempts to disable device encryption while another device administrator has enabled it, the call to disable will fail (most commonly returning ENCRYPTION_STATUS_ACTIVE). This policy controls encryption of the secure (application data) storage area. Data written to other storage areas may or may not be encrypted, and this policy does not require or control the encryption of any other storage areas. There is one exception: If Environment.isExternalStorageEmulated() is true, then the directory returned by Environment.getExternalStorageDirectory() must be written to disk within the encrypted storage area. Important Note: On some devices, it is possible to encrypt storage without requiring the user to create a device PIN or Password. In this case, the storage is encrypted, but the encryption key may not be fully secured. For maximum security, the administrator should also require (and check for) a pattern, PIN, or password. |Parameters| |Returns| |the new total request status (for all active admins), or | |Throws| |if | setSystemSetting public void setSystemSetting (ComponentName admin, String setting, String value) Called by a device or profile owner to update Settings.System settings. Validation that the value of the setting is in the correct form for the setting type should be performed by the caller. The settings that can be updated by a device owner or profile owner of secondary user with this method are: Settings.System.SCREEN_BRIGHTNESS Settings.System.SCREEN_BRIGHTNESS_MODE Settings.System.SCREEN_OFF_TIMEOUT |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setSystemUpdatePolicy public void setSystemUpdatePolicy (ComponentName admin, SystemUpdatePolicy policy) Called by device owners or profile owners of an organization-owned managed profile to to set a local system update policy. When a new policy is set, ACTION_SYSTEM_UPDATE_POLICY_CHANGED is broadcasted. If the supplied system update policy has freeze periods set but the freeze periods do not meet 90-day maximum length or 60-day minimum separation requirement set out in SystemUpdatePolicy#setFreezePeriods, SystemUpdatePolicy.ValidationFailedException will the thrown. Note that the system keeps a record of freeze periods the device experienced previously, and combines them with the new freeze periods to be set when checking the maximum freeze length and minimum freeze separation constraints. As a result, freeze periods that passed validation during SystemUpdatePolicy#setFreezePeriods might fail the additional checks here due to the freeze period history. If this is causing issues during development, adb shell dpm clear-freeze-period-record can be used to clear the record. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | |if the policy type or maintenance window is not valid.| |if the policy's freeze period does not meet the requirement.| setTime public boolean setTime (ComponentName admin, long millis) Called by a device owner or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to set the system wall clock time. This only takes effect if called when Settings.Global.AUTO_TIME is 0, otherwise false will be returned. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | setTimeZone public boolean setTimeZone (ComponentName admin, String timeZone) Called by a device owner or a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to set the system's persistent default time zone. This only takes effect if called when Settings.Global.AUTO_TIME_ZONE is 0, otherwise false will be returned. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | setTrustAgentConfiguration public void setTrustAgentConfiguration (ComponentName admin, ComponentName target, PersistableBundle configuration) Sets a list of configuration features to enable for a trust agent component. This is meant to be used in conjunction with KEYGUARD_DISABLE_TRUST_AGENTS, which disables all trust agents but those enabled by this function call. If flag KEYGUARD_DISABLE_TRUST_AGENTS is not set, then this call has no effect. For any specific trust agent, whether it is disabled or not depends on the aggregated state of each admin's KEYGUARD_DISABLE_TRUST_AGENTS setting and its trust agent configuration as set by this function call. In particular: if any admin sets KEYGUARD_DISABLE_TRUST_AGENTS and does not additionally set any trust agent configuration, the trust agent is disabled completely. Otherwise, the trust agent will receive the list of configurations from all admins who set KEYGUARD_DISABLE_TRUST_AGENTS and aggregate the configurations to determine its behavior. The exact meaning of aggregation is trust-agent-specific. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_DISABLE_KEYGUARD_FEATURES to be able to call this method; if not, a security exception will be thrown. This method can be called on the DevicePolicyManager instance returned by getParentProfileInstance(android.content.ComponentName) in order to set the configuration for the parent profile. On devices not supporting PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature, calling this method has no effect - no trust agent configuration will be set. Requires the PackageManager#FEATURE_SECURE_LOCK_SCREEN feature which can be detected using PackageManager.hasSystemFeature(String). |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setUninstallBlocked public void setUninstallBlocked (ComponentName admin, String packageName, boolean uninstallBlocked) Change whether a user can uninstall a package. This function can be called by a device owner, profile owner, or by a delegate given the DELEGATION_BLOCK_UNINSTALL scope via setDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String, List. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setUsbDataSignalingEnabled public void setUsbDataSignalingEnabled (boolean enabled) Called by device owner or profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile to enable or disable USB data signaling for the device. When disabled, USB data connections (except from charging functions) are prohibited. This API is not supported on all devices, the caller should call canUsbDataSignalingBeDisabled() to check whether enabling or disabling USB data signaling is supported on the device. |Parameters| |Throws| |if the caller is not a device owner or a profile owner on an organization-owned managed profile.| |if disabling USB data signaling is not supported or if USB data signaling fails to be enabled/disabled.| setUserControlDisabledPackages public void setUserControlDisabledPackages (ComponentName admin, List<String> packages) Called by Device owner to disable user control over apps. User will not be able to clear app data or force-stop packages. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | setUserIcon public void setUserIcon (ComponentName admin, Bitmap icon) Called by profile or device owners to set the user's photo. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | startUserInBackground public int startUserInBackground (ComponentName admin, UserHandle userHandle) Called by a device owner to start the specified secondary user in background. |Parameters| |Returns| |one of the following result codes: | |Throws| |if | stopUser public int stopUser (ComponentName admin, UserHandle userHandle) Called by a device owner to stop the specified secondary user. |Parameters| |Returns| |one of the following result codes: | |Throws| |if | switchUser public boolean switchUser (ComponentName admin, UserHandle userHandle) Called by a device owner to switch the specified secondary user to the foreground. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | transferOwnership public void transferOwnership (ComponentName admin, ComponentName target, PersistableBundle bundle) Changes the current administrator to another one. All policies from the current administrator are migrated to the new administrator. The whole operation is atomic - the transfer is either complete or not done at all. Depending on the current administrator (device owner, profile owner), you have the following expected behaviour: - A device owner can only be transferred to a new device owner - A profile owner can only be transferred to a new profile owner Use the bundle parameter to pass data to the new administrator. The data will be received in the DeviceAdminReceiver#onTransferOwnershipComplete(Context, PersistableBundle) callback of the new administrator. The transfer has failed if the original administrator is still the corresponding owner after calling this method. The incoming target administrator must have the <support-transfer-ownership /> tag inside the <device-admin></device-admin> tags in the xml file referenced by DeviceAdminReceiver#DEVICE_ADMIN_META_DATA. Otherwise an IllegalArgumentException will be thrown. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | |if | uninstallAllUserCaCerts public void uninstallAllUserCaCerts (ComponentName admin) Uninstalls all custom trusted CA certificates from the profile. Certificates installed by means other than device policy will also be removed, except for system CA certificates. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | uninstallCaCert public void uninstallCaCert (ComponentName admin, byte[] certBuffer) Uninstalls the given certificate from trusted user CAs, if present. The caller must be a profile or device owner on that user, or a delegate package given the DELEGATION_CERT_INSTALL scope via setDelegatedScopes(ComponentName, String, List; otherwise a security exception will be thrown. |Parameters| |Throws| |if | updateOverrideApn public boolean updateOverrideApn (ComponentName admin, int apnId, ApnSetting apnSetting) Called by device owner to update an override APN. This method may returns false if there is no override APN with the given apnId. This method may also returns false if apnSetting conflicts with an existing override APN. Update the existing conflicted APN instead. See addOverrideApn(ComponentName, ApnSetting) for the definition of conflict. |Parameters| |Returns| |Throws| |if | wipeData public void wipeData (int flags, CharSequence reason) Ask that all user data be wiped. If called as a secondary user, the user will be removed and other users will remain unaffected, the provided reason for wiping data can be shown to user. Calling from the primary user will cause the device to reboot, erasing all device data - including all the secondary users and their data - while booting up. In this case, we don't show the reason to the user since the device would be factory reset. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_WIPE_DATA to be able to call this method; if it has not, a security exception will be thrown. If the caller is a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile, it may additionally call this method on the parent instance. Calling this method on the parent DevicePolicyManager instance would wipe the entire device, while calling it on the current profile instance would relinquish the device for personal use, removing the managed profile and all policies set by the profile owner. |Parameters| |Throws| |if the calling application does not own an active administrator that uses | |if the input reason string is null or empty, or if | wipeData public void wipeData (int flags) Ask that all user data be wiped. If called as a secondary user, the user will be removed and other users will remain unaffected. Calling from the primary user will cause the device to reboot, erasing all device data - including all the secondary users and their data - while booting up. The calling device admin must have requested DeviceAdminInfo#USES_POLICY_WIPE_DATA to be able to call this method; if it has not, a security exception will be thrown. If the caller is a profile owner of an organization-owned managed profile, it may additionally call this method on the parent instance. Calling this method on the parent DevicePolicyManager instance would wipe the entire device, while calling it on the current profile instance would relinquish the device for personal use, removing the managed profile and all policies set by the profile owner. |Parameters| |Throws| |if the calling application does not own an active administrator that uses | Content and code samples on this page are subject to the licenses described in the Content License. Java and OpenJDK are trademarks or registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its affiliates. Last updated 2022-02-10 UTC.