This is a potential security issue, you are being redirected to https://nvd.nist.gov CVE-2019-3610 Detail Modified This vulnerability has been modified since it was last analyzed by the NVD. It is awaiting reanalysis which may result in further changes to the information provided. Current Description Data Leakage Attacks vulnerability in Microsoft Windows client in McAfee True Key (TK) 3.1.9211.0 and earlier allows local users to expose confidential data via specially crafted malware. View Analysis Description Analysis Description Data Leakage Attacks vulnerability in Microsoft Windows client in McAfee True Key (TK) 3.1.9211.0 and earlier allows local users to expose confidential data via specially crafted malware. Severity CVSS 3.x Severity and Metrics: NIST: NVD Base Score: 5.5 MEDIUM Vector: CVSS:3.0/AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:N CNA: McAfee Base Score: 5.6 MEDIUM Vector: CVSS:3.0/AV:L/AC:H/PR:L/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:N/A:N NVD Analysts use publicly available information to associate vector strings and CVSS scores. We also display any CVSS information provided within the CVE List from the CNA. Note: It is possible that the NVD CVSS may not match that of the CNA. The most common reason for this is that publicly available information does not provide sufficient detail or that information simply was not available at the time the CVSS vector string was assigned. CVSS 2.0 Severity and Metrics: NIST: NVD Base Score: 2.1 LOW Vector: (AV:L/AC:L/Au:N/C:P/I:N/A:N) NVD Analysts use publicly available information to associate vector strings and CVSS scores. We also display any CVSS information provided within the CVE List from the CNA. Note: NVD Analysts have published a CVSS score for this CVE based on publicly available information at the time of analysis. The CNA has not provided a score within the CVE List. References to Advisories, Solutions, and Tools By selecting these links, you will be leaving NIST webspace. We have provided these links to other web sites because they may have information that would be of interest to you. No inferences should be drawn on account of other sites being referenced, or not, from this page. There may be other web sites that are more appropriate for your purpose. NIST does not necessarily endorse the views expressed, or concur with the facts presented on these sites. Further, NIST does not endorse any commercial products that may be mentioned on these sites. Please address comments about this page to nvd@nist.gov. Weakness Enumeration Known Affected Software Configurations Switch to CPE 2.2 CPEs loading, please wait. Denotes Vulnerable Software Change History4 change records found show changes Quick InfoCVE Dictionary Entry: CVE-2019-3610 NVD Published Date: 02/13/2019 NVD Last Modified: 10/09/2019 Source: McAfee