Brit mates BREAK Apple’s face unlock and vow to never buy iPhone again A pair of lookalike Brits who managed to crack Apple's face unlock feature on the £999 iPhone X have been given free smartphones, and vowed never to buy an iPhone again TWO friends have been given a pair of free smartphones after the cracked Apple's iPhone X facial recognition system. The British duo made a surprise discovery that they could both unlock the same iPhone X with their faces. Now Apple rival Huawei has gifted the pair with Huawei Mate 10 Pro smartphones, which are worth £620 each. The life-long friends first realised something was wrong when they were working out together at the gym. 23-year-old Joe told SWNS how he had injured his Achilles tendon and passed his phone over to Brad, so he could call Joe's worried girlfriend. Brad noticed that the screen unlocked when he looked at Joe's phone, and realised that Apple's Face ID facial recognition system wasn't working as intended. The system is supposed to work by scanning your face, and then granting you access to the iPhone X once you're verified as the phone's owner. But Joe and Brad are yet another case of Apple's Face ID feature seemingly failing – highlighting a major security risk. Due to the flaw, it would've been possible for Brad to access most of the content on Joe's iPhone, and even make contactless payments using debit and credit cards connected to the £999 phone. Joe, a construction worker from Melksham in Wiltshire, said: "After all the hype around the Apple iPhone X, not to mention the cost of the handset, I was pretty shocked when Brad was able to outsmart the software and access all my personal information. After hearing about the pair's cybersecurity conundrum, Chinese mobile giant Huawei – which is the second biggest phone maker in the world – reached out to Joe and Brad. The company has since provided both friends with a brand new smartphone to replace the iPhone X. Joe added: "I'm just thanking my lucky stars it was him and not someone I don't know! Big thanks to Huawei who have stepped in to help us avoid having this problem again! His mate Brad said: "It's nice of Huawei to reach out to us. I'm excited to start using the phone – it's a really good model. "I wouldn't get another iPhone because the face recognition is such a large security feature that's clearly faulty." In fairness, Apple admits that the Face ID feature isn't perfect on its own website. MOST READ IN TECH Its product support page explains: "The probability that a random person in the population could look at your iPhone X and unlock it using Face ID is approximately one in one million." The company also says the chances of you being compromised using the Touch ID fingerprint scanner are much higher – one in 50,000. We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.