Systems at Australian beverages company Lion were infected with a ransomware that disrupted to manufacturing processes and customer service. Systems at Australian beverages company Lion were infected with a ransomware, the security breach caused the disruption of manufacturing processes and customer service. Lion is a beverage and food company that operates in Australia and New Zealand, and a subsidiary of Japanese beverage giant Kirin. It produces and markets a range of beer, wine, cider, RTDs and spirits, as well as dairy and other beverages The infection took place on June 9, and a few days later the company confirmed that the incident was caused by ransomware. The cyberattack will cause a delay in the production of beer, the company announced. In response to the attack, the Australian company shut down some manufacturing sites, and some of them have yet to be resumed. The company also started informing customers about the incident and warned of possible “temporary shortages.” “Our investigations to date have shown that a system outage has been caused by ransomware. The ransomware targeted our computer systems. In response, we immediately shut down key systems as a precaution.” reads a post published by the company on its website. “Our teams are working as hard as they can to service customers and suppliers, implementing new manual processes and investigating all alternative options. We recognise this is imperfect and is causing disruption to our valued partners. We also recognise this is happening at an unfortunate time as we emerge from COVID-19 restrictions,” Lion immediately launched an investigation into the ransomware attack, it confirmed that financial or personal information has not been exposed as a result of the attack. “We had been hoping to have full access restored by now, but unfortunately this process is taking longer than we hoped,” continues the post.”There is no evidence that any of the information contained in our system (including financial or personal information) has been affected but this is something that we will review closely as we continue to investigate the incident.” Pierluigi Paganini is member of the ENISA (European Union Agency for Network and Information Security) Threat Landscape Stakeholder Group and Cyber G7 Group, he is also a Security Evangelist, Security Analyst and Freelance Writer. Editor-in-Chief at "Cyber Defense Magazine", Pierluigi is a cyber security expert with over 20 years experience in the field, he is Certified Ethical Hacker at EC Council in London. The passion for writing and a strong belief that security is founded on sharing and awareness led Pierluigi to find the security blog "Security Affairs" recently named a Top National Security Resource for US. Pierluigi is a member of the "The Hacker News" team and he is a writer for some major publications in the field such as Cyber War Zone, ICTTF, Infosec Island, Infosec Institute, The Hacker News Magazine and for many other Security magazines. Author of the Books "The Deep Dark Web" and “Digital Virtual Currency and Bitcoin”. This site uses cookies, including for analytics, personalization, and advertising purposes. For more information or to change your cookie settings, click here. If you continue to browse this site without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this use. AcceptRead More Privacy and Cookies Policy Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website.