AWS-ADFS-Credential-GeneratorAWS-ADFS-Credential-Generator Windows desktop application that generates an AWS Credential file with temporary credentials for ADFS users. Inspired by How to Implement Federated API and CLI Access Using SAML 2.0 and AD FS this tool is designed for less technically inclined folk who need tooling/API access to AWS but are not CLI comfortable. Here is a screen shot with typical settings showing the profiles (aka 'Roles') for the given user: Here is a screen shot of S3Browser using the generated credential file and one of the profiles: How it worksHow it works - Using the supplied domain credentials, it authenticates against the ASFS url provided using NTLM. The machine running this does not need to be on the domain. - If authentication is successful, the SAMLResponseis extracted. - All the Role attributes are extracted from the SAMLResponse. - For each Role, temporary credentials are requested from AWS and written to $USERPROFILE/.aws/credentials-generated - The temporary credentials are refreshed automatically every 50 minutes (the max lifetime for a AWS temporary credential is 60 minutes). - CLI tooling / S3Browser etc should be configured to use $USERPROFILE/.aws/credentials-generated. SettingsSettings - ADFS URL: The URL to your ADFS server for Identity Provider Initiated Sign On. Get this value from your friendly Administrator. - Login to RP: The AWS Relying Party name. This is configured in ADFS. Get this value from your friendly Administrator. - Use Crrent User: Authenticates with your logged in windows credentials. Use this if your machine & account is part of a domain. - Username, Password: Allows you to specify credentials to log in to ADFS. Use this if your machinc / account is NOT part of a domain, or you want to log in as someone else. - SAML Prioder Name: The Identity Provider Name, as configured in AWS IAM's "Identity Providers" section. Get this value from your friendly Administrator. - Profiles: The collection of Roles you can assume when logging into your AWS accound are written as "Credential Profiles". Use these values in CLI (i.e. AWS Powershell -ProfileName) or GUI tools (S3Browser above). ContributingContributing This was hacked up on a Saturday night; not meant to be the prettiest. It is a winforms app with all the code in code-behind and zero tests; and that's fine, It Works. Pull requests are welcome, however, create an issue first.