Build public class Build extends Object |java.lang.Object| |↳||android.os.Build| Information about the current build, extracted from system properties. Summary Nested classes Build information for a particular device partition. Various version strings. Enumeration of the currently known SDK version codes. Constants Value used for when a build property is unknown. Fields The name of the underlying board, like "goldfish". The system bootloader version number. The consumer-visible brand with which the product/hardware will be associated, if any. This field was deprecated in API level 21. Use This field was deprecated in API level 21. Use The name of the industrial design. A build ID string meant for displaying to the user A string that uniquely identifies this build. The name of the hardware (from the kernel command line or /proc). Either a changelist number, or a label like "M4-rc20". The manufacturer of the product/hardware. The end-user-visible name for the end product. The SKU of the device as set by the original design manufacturer (ODM). The name of the overall product. This field was deprecated in API level 15. The radio firmware version is frequently not available when this class is initialized, leading to a blank or "unknown" value for this string. Use This field was deprecated in API level 26. Use The SKU of the hardware (from the kernel command line). The manufacturer of the device's primary system-on-chip. The model name of the device's primary system-on-chip. An ordered list of 32 bit ABIs supported by this device. An ordered list of 64 bit ABIs supported by this device. An ordered list of ABIs supported by this device. Comma-separated tags describing the build, like "unsigned,debug". The time at which the build was produced, given in milliseconds since the UNIX epoch. The type of build, like "user" or "eng". Public constructors Public methods Get build information about partitions that have a separate fingerprint defined. Returns the version string for the radio firmware. Gets the hardware serial number, if available. Inherited methods From class Constants UNKNOWN public static final String UNKNOWN Value used for when a build property is unknown. Constant Value: "unknown" Fields BOARD public static final String BOARD The name of the underlying board, like "goldfish". BOOTLOADER public static final String BOOTLOADER The system bootloader version number. BRAND public static final String BRAND The consumer-visible brand with which the product/hardware will be associated, if any. CPU_ABI Deprecated in API level 21 public static final String CPU_ABI This field was deprecated in API level 21. Use SUPPORTED_ABIS instead. The name of the instruction set (CPU type + ABI convention) of native code. CPU_ABI2 Deprecated in API level 21 public static final String CPU_ABI2 This field was deprecated in API level 21. Use SUPPORTED_ABIS instead. The name of the second instruction set (CPU type + ABI convention) of native code. DEVICE public static final String DEVICE The name of the industrial design. DISPLAY public static final String DISPLAY A build ID string meant for displaying to the user FINGERPRINT public static final String FINGERPRINT A string that uniquely identifies this build. Do not attempt to parse this value. HARDWARE public static final String HARDWARE The name of the hardware (from the kernel command line or /proc). HOST public static final String HOST ID public static final String ID Either a changelist number, or a label like "M4-rc20". MANUFACTURER public static final String MANUFACTURER The manufacturer of the product/hardware. MODEL public static final String MODEL The end-user-visible name for the end product. ODM_SKU public static final String ODM_SKU The SKU of the device as set by the original design manufacturer (ODM). This is a runtime-initialized property set during startup to configure device services. If no value is set, this is reported as UNKNOWN. The ODM SKU may have multiple variants for the same system SKU in case a manufacturer produces variants of the same design. For example, the same build may be released with variations in physical keyboard and/or display hardware, each with a different ODM SKU. PRODUCT public static final String PRODUCT The name of the overall product. RADIO Deprecated in API level 15 public static final String RADIO This field was deprecated in API level 15. The radio firmware version is frequently not available when this class is initialized, leading to a blank or "unknown" value for this string. Use getRadioVersion() instead. The radio firmware version number. SERIAL Deprecated in API level 26 public static final String SERIAL This field was deprecated in API level 26. Use getSerial() instead. A hardware serial number, if available. Alphanumeric only, case-insensitive. This field is always set to Build#UNKNOWN. SKU public static final String SKU The SKU of the hardware (from the kernel command line). The SKU is reported by the bootloader to configure system software features. If no value is supplied by the bootloader, this is reported as UNKNOWN. SOC_MANUFACTURER public static final String SOC_MANUFACTURER The manufacturer of the device's primary system-on-chip. SOC_MODEL public static final String SOC_MODEL The model name of the device's primary system-on-chip. SUPPORTED_32_BIT_ABIS public static final String[] SUPPORTED_32_BIT_ABIS An ordered list of 32 bit ABIs supported by this device. The most preferred ABI is the first element in the list. See SUPPORTED_ABIS and SUPPORTED_64_BIT_ABIS. SUPPORTED_64_BIT_ABIS public static final String[] SUPPORTED_64_BIT_ABIS An ordered list of 64 bit ABIs supported by this device. The most preferred ABI is the first element in the list. See SUPPORTED_ABIS and SUPPORTED_32_BIT_ABIS. SUPPORTED_ABIS public static final String[] SUPPORTED_ABIS An ordered list of ABIs supported by this device. The most preferred ABI is the first element in the list. See SUPPORTED_32_BIT_ABIS and SUPPORTED_64_BIT_ABIS. TAGS public static final String TAGS Comma-separated tags describing the build, like "unsigned,debug". TIME public static final long TIME The time at which the build was produced, given in milliseconds since the UNIX epoch. TYPE public static final String TYPE The type of build, like "user" or "eng". USER public static final String USER Public constructors Build public Build () Public methods getFingerprintedPartitions public static List<Build.Partition> getFingerprintedPartitions () Get build information about partitions that have a separate fingerprint defined. The list includes partitions that are suitable candidates for over-the-air updates. This is not an exhaustive list of partitions on the device. |Returns| |This value cannot be | getRadioVersion public static String getRadioVersion () Returns the version string for the radio firmware. May return null (if, for instance, the radio is not currently on). |Returns| getSerial public static String getSerial () Gets the hardware serial number, if available. Note: Root access may allow you to modify device identifiers, such as the hardware serial number. If you change these identifiers, you can use key attestation to obtain proof of the device's original identifiers. Starting with API level 29, persistent device identifiers are guarded behind additional restrictions, and apps are recommended to use resettable identifiers (see Best practices for unique identifiers). This method can be invoked if one of the following requirements is met: - If the calling app has been granted the READ_PRIVILEGED_PHONE_STATE permission; this is a privileged permission that can only be granted to apps preloaded on the device. - If the calling app has carrier privileges (see TelephonyManager.hasCarrierPrivileges()) on any active subscription. - If the calling app is the default SMS role holder (see RoleManager.isRoleHeld(String)). - If the calling app is the device owner of a fully-managed device, a profile owner of an organization-owned device, or their delegates (see DevicePolicyManager.getEnrollmentSpecificId()). If the calling app does not meet one of these requirements then this method will behave as follows: - If the calling app's target SDK is API level 28 or lower and the app has the READ_PHONE_STATE permission then Build#UNKNOWNis returned. - If the calling app's target SDK is API level 28 or lower and the app does not have the READ_PHONE_STATE permission, or if the calling app is targeting API level 29 or higher, then a SecurityException is thrown. Requires android.Manifest.permission.READ_PRIVILEGED_PHONE_STATE |Returns| |The serial number if specified.| Content and code samples on this page are subject to the licenses described in the Content License. Java and OpenJDK are trademarks or registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its affiliates. Last updated 2022-02-10 UTC.