DNSdumpster.com is a FREE domain research tool that can discover hosts related to a domain. Finding visible hosts from the attackers perspective is an important part of the security assessment process. this is a project The ability to quickly identify the attack surface is essential. Whether you are penetration testing or chasing bug bounties. Network defenders benefit from passive reconnaissance in a number of ways. With analysis informing information security strategy. Understanding network based OSINT helps information technologists to better operate, assess and manage the network. Map an organizations attack surface with a virtual dumpster dive* of the DNS records associated with the target organization. *DUMPSTER DIVING: The practice of sifting refuse from an office or technical installation to extract confidential data, especially security-compromising information. The company behind DNSDumpster is hackertarget.com where we provide online hosted access to trusted open source security vulnerability scanners and network intelligence tools. Save time and headaches by incorporating our attack surface discovery into your vulnerability assessment process. No brute force subdomain enumeration is used as is common in dns recon tools that enumerate subdomains. We use open source intelligence resources to query for related domain data. It is then compiled into an actionable resource for both attackers and defenders of Internet facing systems. More than a simple DNS lookup this tool will discover those hard to find sub-domains and web hosts. The search relies on data from our crawls of the Alexa Top 1 Million sites, Search Engines, Common Crawl, Certificate Transparency, Max Mind, Team Cymru, Shodan and scans.io. Over at hackertarget.com there's a tool we call domain profiler. This compiles data similiar to DNSDumpster; with additional data discovery. Queries available are based on the membership plan with the number of results (subdomains) being unlimited. With a STARTER membership you have access to the domain profiler tool for 12 months. Once the years membership expires you will revert to BASIC member status, however access to Domain Profiler and Basic Nmap scans continue. The BASIC access does not expire. There are some great open source recon frameworks that have been developed over the past couple of years. In addition tools such as Metasploit and Nmap include various modules for enumerating DNS. Check our Getting Started with Footprinting for more information.