Andariel is a North Korean state-sponsored threat group that has been active since at least 2009. Andariel has primarily focused its operations--which have included destructive attacks--against South Korean government agencies, military organizations, and a variety of domestic companies; they have also conducted cyber financial operations against ATMs, banks, and cryptocurrency exchanges. Andariel's notable activity includes Operation Black Mine, Operation GoldenAxe, and Campaign Rifle. Andariel is considered a sub-set of Lazarus Group, and has been attributed to North Korea's Reconnaissance General Bureau. North Korean group definitions are known to have significant overlap, and some security researchers report all North Korean state-sponsored cyber activity under the name Lazarus Group instead of tracking clusters or subgroups. Andariel has collected large numbers of files from compromised network systems for later extraction. Andariel has used watering hole attacks, often with zero-day exploits, to gain initial access to victims within a specific IP range. Andariel has exploited numerous ActiveX vulnerabilities, including zero-days. Andariel has inserted a malicious script within compromised websites to collect potential victim information such as browser type, system language, Flash Player version, and other data. Andariel has limited its watering hole attacks to specific IP address ranges. Andariel has downloaded additional tools and malware onto compromised hosts. Andariel has hidden malicious executables within PNG files. Andariel has used a variety of publicly-available remote access Trojans (RATs) for its operations. Andariel has conducted spearphishing campaigns that included malicious Word or Excel attachments. Andariel has used tasklist to enumerate processes and find a specific string. Andariel has used the netstat -naop tcp command to display TCP connections on a victim's machine. Andariel has attempted to lure victims into enabling malicious macros within email attachments.