APT1 is a Chinese threat group that has been attributed to the 2nd Bureau of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) General Staff Department’s (GSD) 3rd Department, commonly known by its Military Unit Cover Designator (MUCD) as Unit 61398. APT1 used the commands net localgroup,net user, and net group to find accounts on the system. APT1 has registered hundreds of domains for use in operations. APT1 has used RAR to compress files before moving them outside of the victim network. APT1 used a batch script to perform a series of discovery techniques and saves it to a text file. APT1 has used the Windows command shell to execute commands, and batch scripting to automate execution. APT1 hijacked FQDNs associated with legitimate websites hosted by hop points. APT1 has collected files from a local victim. APT1 uses two utilities, GETMAIL and MAPIGET, to steal email. GETMAIL extracts emails from archived Outlook .pst files. APT1 uses two utilities, GETMAIL and MAPIGET, to steal email. MAPIGET steals email still on Exchange servers that has not yet been archived. APT1 has created email accounts for later use in social engineering, phishing, and when registering domains. The file name AcroRD32.exe, a legitimate process name for Adobe's Acrobat Reader, was used by APT1 as a name for malware. APT1 listed connected network shares. APT1 used publicly available malware for privilege escalation. APT1 has used various open-source tools for privilege escalation purposes. APT1 has been known to use credential dumping using Mimikatz. APT1 has sent spearphishing emails containing malicious attachments. APT1 has sent spearphishing emails containing hyperlinks to malicious files. APT1 gathered a list of running processes on the system using tasklist /v. The APT1 group is known to have used RDP during operations. APT1 used the ipconfig /all command to gather network configuration information. APT1 used the net use command to get a listing on network connections. APT1 used the commands net start and tasklist to get a listing of the services on the system. The APT1 group is known to have used pass the hash.