APT28 is a threat group that has been attributed to Russia's General Staff Main Intelligence Directorate (GRU) 85th Main Special Service Center (GTsSS) military unit 26165. This group has been active since at least 2004. APT28 reportedly compromised the Hillary Clinton campaign, the Democratic National Committee, and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee in 2016 in an attempt to interfere with the U.S. presidential election. In 2018, the US indicted five GRU Unit 26165 officers associated with APT28 for cyber operations (including close-access operations) conducted between 2014 and 2018 against the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), the US Anti-Doping Agency, a US nuclear facility, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), the Spiez Swiss Chemicals Laboratory, and other organizations. Some of these were conducted with the assistance of GRU Unit 74455, which is also referred to as Sandworm Team. APT28 has used CVE-2015-1701 to access the SYSTEM token and copy it into the current process as part of privilege escalation. APT28 has used a Powershell cmdlet to grant the ApplicationImpersonation role to a compromised account. APT28 registered domains imitating NATO, OSCE security websites, Caucasus information resources, and other organizations. APT28 has used newly-created Blogspot pages for credential harvesting operations. APT28 has performed large-scale scans in an attempt to find vulnerable servers. Later implants used by APT28, such as CHOPSTICK, use a blend of HTTP, HTTPS, and other legitimate channels for C2, depending on module configuration. APT28 has used IMAP, POP3, and SMTP for a communication channel in various implants, including using self-registered Google Mail accounts and later compromised email servers of its victims. APT28 used a publicly available tool to gather and compress multiple documents on the DCCC and DNC networks. APT28 has used a variety of utilities, including WinRAR, to archive collected data with password protection. APT28 used a publicly available tool to gather and compress multiple documents on the DCCC and DNC networks. APT28 has deployed malware that has copied itself to the startup directory for persistence. An APT28 loader Trojan adds the Registry key HKCU\Environment\UserInitMprLogonScript to establish persistence. APT28 can perform brute force attacks to obtain credentials. APT28 has used a brute-force/password-spray tooling that operated in two modes: in brute-force mode it typically sent over 300 authentication attempts per hour per targeted account over the course of several hours or days. APT28 has also used a Kubernetes cluster to conduct distributed, large-scale password guessing attacks.