Iranian Hackers Infiltrated New York Dam in 2013 Cyberspies had access to control system of small structure near Rye in 2013, sparking concerns that reached to the White House Iranian hackers infiltrated the control system of a small dam less than 20 miles from New York City two years ago, sparking concerns that reached to the White House, according to former and current U.S. officials and experts familiar with the previously undisclosed incident. The breach came amid attacks by hackers linked to Iran’s government against the websites of U.S. banks, and just a few years after American spies had damaged an Iranian nuclear facility with a sophisticated computer worm called Stuxnet. In October 2012, then-Defense Secretary Leon Panetta called out Iran’s hacking, prompting fears of cyberwar. Resume Subscription We are delighted that you'd like to resume your subscription. You will be charged $ + tax (if applicable) for The Wall Street Journal. You may change your billing preferences at any time in the Customer Center or call Customer Service. You will be notified in advance of any changes in rate or terms. You may cancel your subscription at anytime by calling Customer Service. Please click confirm to resume now. - Walmart: 20% off your next online order - Walmart coupon code - Dell: Get 35% on Select Workstations & PCs with Dell coupon code - JCPenney: Today's JCPenney coupon code - 30% off entire purchase - Nike: March Savings Event: Up to 64% off Nike's newest spring styles - Best Buy: Save 15% or more from Best Buy deal of the Day - Michaels: Michaels coupon code for senior - Extra 10% off Most Popular News Russia’s Military Chief Promised Quick Victory in Ukraine, but Now Faces a Potential Quagmire Russian Artillery Kills Ukrainian Civilians Fleeing Kyiv Suburb Ukraine Faces Fresh Wave of Attacks Focused on Population Centers Russia Recruiting Syrians for Urban Combat in Ukraine, U.S. Officials Say Ukraine Crisis Kicks Off New Superpower Struggle Among U.S., Russia and China Most Popular Opinion Opinion: The Two Blunders That Caused the Ukraine War Opinion: Putin’s ‘Vertical’ Empire Will Fall Opinion: Everything America Won’t Do on Ukraine Opinion: Hitting Putin Where It Hurts by Sanctioning Russia’s Oil Exports Opinion: Israel, Russia and the U.S. Moral Abdication