Common Attack Pattern Enumeration and Classification A Community Resource for Identifying and Understanding Attacks Presentation Filter: Description An adversary obtains (i.e. steals or purchases) legitimate Kerberos credentials (e.g. Kerberos service account userID/password or Kerberos Tickets) with the goal of achieving authenticated access to additional systems, applications, or services within the domain. Extended Description Kerberos is the default authentication method for Windows domains and is utilized for numerous authentication purposes. Attacks leveraging trusted Kerberos credentials can result in numerous consequences, depending on what Kerberos credential is stolen. For example, Kerberos service accounts are typically used to run services or scheduled tasks pertaining to authentication. However, these credentials are often weak and never expire, in addition to possessing local or domain administrator privileges. If an adversary is able to acquire these credentials, it could result in lateral movement within the Windows domain or access to any resources the service account is privileged to access, among other things. Kerberos credentials can be obtained by an adversary via methods such as system breaches, network sniffing attacks, and/or brute force attacks against the Kerberos service account or the hash of a service ticket. Ultimately, successful spoofing and impersonation of trusted Kerberos credentials can lead to an adversary breaking authentication, authorization, and audit controls with the target system or application. Likelihood Of Attack Medium Typical Severity High Relationships This table shows the other attack patterns and high level categories that are related to this attack pattern. These relationships are defined as ChildOf and ParentOf, and give insight to similar items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as CanFollow, PeerOf, and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar attack patterns that the user may want to explore. This table shows the views that this attack pattern belongs to and top level categories within that view. Execution Flow Explore Experiment Exploit Prerequisites Skills Required Resources Required Indicators Consequences This table specifies different individual consequences associated with the attack pattern. The Scope identifies the security property that is violated, while the Impact describes the negative technical impact that arises if an adversary succeeds in their attack. The Likelihood provides information about how likely the specific consequence is expected to be seen relative to the other consequences in the list. For example, there may be high likelihood that a pattern will be used to achieve a certain impact, but a low likelihood that it will be exploited to achieve a different impact. Mitigations Example Instances Related Weaknesses A Related Weakness relationship associates a weakness with this attack pattern. Each association implies a weakness that must exist for a given attack to be successful. If multiple weaknesses are associated with the attack pattern, then any of the weaknesses (but not necessarily all) may be present for the attack to be successful. Each related weakness is identified by a CWE identifier. Notes Other Kerberos centers around a ticketing system that is used to request/grant access to resources and to then access the requested resources. If one of these tickets is acquired, an adversary could gain access to a specific resource; access any resource a user has privileges to access; gain access to services that use Kerberos as an authentication mechanism and generate tickets to access a particular resource and the system that hosts the resource; or generate Ticket Granting Tickets (TGTs) for any domain account within Active Directory. Taxonomy Mappings Relevant to the ATT&CK taxonomy mapping References Content History More information is available — Please select a different filter.