Latest Offensive Operations News & Updates SEC661: ARM Exploit Development Available OnDemand Designed to break down the complexity of exploit development and difficulties with analyzing software that runs on IoT devices, SEC661 will teach you how to interact with software running in ARM environments and write custom exploits against known IoT vulnerabilities. Featured Offensive Operations Courses & Certifications Offensive Operations Certifications GIAC's offensive operations certifications cover critical domains and highly specialized usages, ensuring professionals are well-versed in essential offensive abilities. GIAC certifications prove that you have the knowledge and skills necessary to work across specialized red, purple, and exploit development teams. The Most Offensive Faculty on The Planet Slingshot Linux Distribution Ubuntu-based Linux distribution with the MATE Desktop Environment built for use in the SANS Offensive Operations courses and for the community. Designed to be stable, reliable and lean, Slingshot is built with Vagrant and Ansible, and includes many standard pen testing tools. Graduate Certificate Program in Pen Testing & Ethical Hacking Designed for working InfoSec and IT professionals to learn how to conduct vulnerability scanning and exploitation of various systems, provide documentation and reporting of activities performed, produce estimated risk, and provide actionable results for organizations of all sizes. The certificate includes: - Highly technical 13-credit-hour program - 4 industry-recognized GIAC certifications - SANS's in-depth offensive simulation capstone for real-world testing, Jupiter Rockets About Offensive Operations SANS Offensive Operations leverages the vast experience of our esteemed faculty to produce the most thorough, cutting-edge offensive cyber security training content in the world. Our goal is to continually broaden the scope of our offensive-related course offerings to cover every possible attack vector. SANS Offensive Operations Curriculum offers courses spanning topics ranging from introductory penetration testing and hardware hacking, all the way to advanced exploit writing and red teaming, as well as specialized training such as purple teaming, wireless or mobile device security, and more. GIAC offensive operations certifications cover critical domains and highly specialized usages, ensuring professionals have the knowledge and skills necessary to work in security roles requiring hands-on experience in specific focus areas like, penetration testing, purple teaming, or exploit development. It's important for organizations and practitioners to have a training provider who covers the attack surface of the entire threat landscape, from authors and instructors who are leaders in those respective areas.