The Normal.dotm template opens whenever you start Microsoft Word, and it includes default styles and customizations that determine the basic look of a document. Note: Any changes that you make to Normal.dotm will be applied to documents that you create in the future. On the File tab, click Open. Go to C:\Users\user name\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Templates. Open the Normal template (Normal.dotm). Make any changes that you want to the fonts, margins, spacing, and other settings. You can use the same commands and features that you use to change a document — but remember that any changes that you make to Normal.dotm will be applied to documents that you create in the future. When you have finished, click the File tab, and then click Save. Note: If Normal.dotm is renamed, damaged, or moved, Word automatically creates a new version (which uses the original default settings) the next time that you start Word. The new version will not include any of the customizations that you made to the version that you renamed or moved. Click the Microsoft Office Button , and then click Open. Do one of the following: In Windows Vista: Click Templates, and then double-click the Normal.dotm file to open it. In Microsoft Windows XP or Microsoft Windows Server 2003: Click Templates next to File name. If no templates are listed in the Open dialog box, click the arrow next to the Files of type box, and then click All Word Templates. Open the Normal template. To be certain that you're working in the default template, check to see that Normal.dotm appears in the Word title bar. Make any changes that you want to the fonts, margins, spacing, and other settings. You can use the same commands and features that you use to change a document — but remember that any changes that you make to Normal.dotm will be applied to documents that you create in the future. When you have finished, click the Microsoft Office Button , and then click Save. Note: If Normal.dotm is renamed, damaged, or moved, Word automatically creates a new version (which uses the original default settings) the next time that you start Word. The new version will not include any of the customizations that you made to the version that you renamed or moved.T