Welcome to the Schneider Electric corporate Website View the new All Products menu Browse Products by Master Ranges Explore All Software Go to Download Center See All Solutions EcoStruxure for Your Business Create. Collaborate. Scale. See All Services Featured Services Featured Tools Digital Capabilities Top Practices Featured Advisors Register your products now! Request assistance Find your partner See All Support Additional links Find what you need, fast See About Us Bridging progress and sustainability for all Select your location Most Common Destinations Asia Pacific Europe Latin America Middle East and Africa North America Welcome the the Schneider Electric French website. It looks like you are located in the United States, would you like to change your location? Reference Date Type Languages : Version : Find answers now. Search for a solution on your own, or connect with one of our experts. Reach out to our customer care team to receive more information, technical support, assistance with complaints and more. Easily find the nearest Schneider Electric distributor in your location. Get answers you need by browsing topic-related Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ). Start your sales inquiry online and an expert will connect with you. SUBSCRIBE TO EMAIL: Get monthly updates from Schneider Electric delivered right to your inbox. I'd like to receive news and commercial info from Schneider Electric and its affiliates via electronic communication means such as email, and I agree to the collection of information on the opening and clicks on these emails (using invisible pixels in the images), to measure performance of our communications and improve them. For more details, please read our Privacy Policy. Please enter a valid email address Please enter a valid email address Please check this box Problem with captcha verification, please check your connection Quick Links About Us SERVICES SOFTWARE Support CONTACT SOLUTIONS Thank you for subscribing to us Now, you will be the first to know the updates from Schneider Electric. You will receive your welcome message soon. Enjoy!