Latest ICS Security News & Updates Featured Industrial Control System Security Courses & Certifications SANS ICS Community Forum Never again miss any community event, a great job opportunity or the latest free resources authored by SANS ICS practitioner faculty. SANS Security Awareness - NERC CIP Cyber Security TrainingNERC CIP Cyber Security TrainingSANS has developed a training program designed for electric utility organizations subject to the NERC CIP Reliability Standards. - ICS Security Awareness TrainingICS Security Awareness TrainingSANS Security Awareness for Engineers focuses on security behaviors for individuals who interact with, operate, or support Industrial Control Systems. Meet Our Instructors Justin Searle SANS.edu Graduate Certificate in ICS Designed for working InfoSec and IT professionals, the graduate certificate in Industrial Control Systems Security is a highly technical, hands-on 12-credit-hour program focused on teaching the applied technologies used to defend and secure industrial control systems, operations technology, and cyber-physical systems. More Free Industrial Control System Security Resources About Industrial Control Systems Security ICS security is a security framework that protects these systems against accidental or intentional risks. The SANS ICS Curricula provides hands-on training courses focused on Attacking and Defending ICS environments. These courses equip both security professionals and control system engineers with the knowledge and skills they need to safeguard our critical infrastructures. Learn More Why Is the ICS Initiative Important? - Tremendous gains are being achieved in industrial applications by sharing and analyzing data, but we need professionals who can address the security challenges. - Preparation is critical because ICS incidents are occurring with increasing frequency and damaging systems. - Control systems are widely deployed and need your attention - there is no such thing as a system that is too small. - Up-to-date ICS knowledge and security skills can help keep our critical systems safe. - Shared learning translates into results - effective security requires the integration of cybersecurity professionals, ICS support staff, and engineers.