Manipulation of Control |Manipulation of Control| |Technique| |ID||T0831| |Tactic||Impact| Description Adversaries may manipulate physical process control within the industrial environment. Methods of manipulating control can include changes to set point values, tags, or other parameters. Adversaries may manipulate control systems devices or possibly leverage their own, to communicate with and command physical control processes. The duration of manipulation may be temporary or longer sustained, depending on operator detection. Methods of Manipulation of Control include: - Man-in-the-middle - Spoof command message - Changing setpoints A Polish student used a remote controller device to interface with the Lodz city tram system in Poland.123 Using this remote, the student was able to capture and replay legitimate tram signals. As a consequence, four trams were derailed and twelve people injured due to resulting emergency stops.2 The track controlling commands issued may have also resulted in tram collisions, a further risk to those on board and nearby the areas of impact.3 Procedure Examples - Industroyer toggles breakers to the open state utilizing unauthorized command messages.4 - Stuxnet can reprogram a PLC and change critical parameters in such a way that legitimate commands can be overridden or intercepted. In addition, Stuxnet can apply inappropriate command sequences or parameters to cause damage to property.5 Mitigations - Communication Authenticity - Protocols used for control functions should provide authenticity through MAC functions or digital signatures. If not, utilize bump-in-the-wire devices or VPNs to enforce communication authenticity between devices that are not capable of supporting this (e.g., legacy controllers, RTUs). - Out-of-Band Communications Channel - Utilize out-of-band communication to validate the integrity of data from the primary channel. - Data Backup - Take and store data backups from end user systems and critical servers. Ensure backup and storage systems are hardened and kept separate from the corporate network to prevent compromise. Maintain and exercise incident response plans 6, including the management of "gold-copy" back-up images and configurations for key systems to enable quick recovery and response from adversarial activities that impact control, view, or availability. References - ^ John Bill. (2017, May 12). Hacked Cyber Security Railways. Retrieved October 17, 2019. - a b Shelley Smith. (2008, February 12). Teen Hacker in Poland Plays Trains and Derails City Tram System. Retrieved October 17, 2019. - a b Bruce Schneier. (2008, January 17). Hacking Polish Trams. Retrieved October 17, 2019. - ^ Anton Cherepanov, ESET. (2017, June 12). Win32/Industroyer: A new threat for industrial control systems. Retrieved September 15, 2017. - ^ Nicolas Falliere, Liam O Murchu, Eric Chien. (2011, February). W32.Stuxnet Dossier (Version 1.4). Retrieved September 22, 2017. - ^ Department of Homeland Security. (2009, October). Developing an Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity Incident Response Capability. Retrieved September 17, 2020.